DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 2A0X1K
Headquarters US Air Force                                                         Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                      1 January 2014




                               AFSC 2A0X1K

        AVIONICS TEST STATION AND
                COMPONENTS
        A-10/B-2/C-17/CV-22/F-16/AFSOC




        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
          AND TRAINING PLAN
         ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                     www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

            RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
This Page Intentionally Blank
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       CFETP 2A0X1K
Headquarters US Air Force                                                             Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                          1 January 2014

                       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                    AVIONICS TEST STATION AND AIRCRAFT COMPONENTS
                               A-10/B-2/C-17/CV-22/F-16/AFSOC
                                        AFSC 2A0X1K

                                           Table of Contents
PART I                                                                                   Page

Preface………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained…………………………………………………………………………………….. 2

Section A--General Information…………………………………………………………………………………….. 6
     Purpose of the CFETP
     Use of the CFETP
     Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Progression and Information…………………………………………………………………… 6
     Specialty Description
     Skill/Career Progression
          Apprentice Level (3)
          Journeyman Level (5)
          Craftsman Level (7)
          Superintendent Level (9)
     Training Decisions
     Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities
     Career Field Path
     Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements…………………………………………………………………….. 12
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification Requirements
     Training Sources
          Apprentice Level (3)
          Journeyman Level (5)
          Craftsman Level (7)
          Superintendent Level (9)

Section D--Resource Contraints…………………………………………………………………………………….. 13

Section E—Transitional Training Guide…………………………………………………………………………… 13

PART II

 Section A, Specialty Training Standard (STS)…………………………………………………………………… 14

 Section B, Course Objective……………………………………………………………………………………….. 15

 Section C, Support Material……………………………………………………………………………………….. 16

 Section D, Training Course Index…………………………………………………………………….................... 16

 Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements ……………………………………………………………………... 16

Supersedes: CFETP 2A0X1S, 1 October 2008          OPR: 365 TRS/TRR
                                                  Approved By: HQ USAF/A4LF; Number of printed pages: 108
                                                                                            CFETP 2A0X1K


           AVIONIC TEST STATIONS AND AIRCRAFT COMPONENTS SPECIALIST
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                           A-10/B-2/C-17/CV-22/F-16/AFSOC
                                    AFSC 2A0X1K


PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support resources, and
minimum core task requirements for 2A0X1K, Avionic Test Stations and Components Specialty. The
CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field
training. This CFETP supersedes 2A0X1S CFETP dated 1 October 2008. The official CFETP can be
found at the Air Force E-Publishing website: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ . NOTE: Civilians
occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification training.

2. CFETP Parts. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage,
and control training.

2.1 Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints to
accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies
transition training plans for the career field.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A provides an explanation of AETC course objectives and
trained proficiency levels. Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training
Package (QTP), which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training
course index that supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to support training. Included
here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique training
requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification
needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training
commensurate with the overall goals of this plan. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard
(STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task, and Career Development Course (CDC)
requirements.




                                                      1
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training. Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified in their Air Force
Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training
is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular
job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications. The AFJQS tasks
are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Bridge Course. A formal or informal course, which allows the individual to expand his/her knowledge
in another area of expertise.

Career Development Course (CDC).--Self-study correspondence course to provide Airmen with
fundamental knowledge of their AFS.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose
document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical
growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable,
eliminate duplication, and ensure this training is budget defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official. A person authorized by appropriate commander to determine an individual’s
ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements and has
an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty.

Course Training Standard (CTS). A formal course document that identifies in board terms the training
members will receive in a specific course.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal AETC training and On-The-Job (OJT) training
designed to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Go/No Go Level. In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge and
experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without assistance or cannot perform the
task without assistance.




                                                     2
Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a Training
Detachment (TD) or by a Mobile Training Team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing, validating,
and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge and skills essential
for successful job performance.

Maintenance Information System (MIS). Systems and applications that support and enable
maintenance business processes. Used to document maintenance actions. Provides maintenance
supervisors with products to evaluate organizational effectiveness and aid in decision-making processes at
all levels.

Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL). Monitors overall maintenance and supply interface, resolves
supply support problems, and coordinates supply-related training needs.

Master Task Listing (MTL). Document maintained within the work-center that identifies all tasks
performed in a work-center. This includes core, critical position qualification and wartime tasks. This
document can be automated.

Master Training Plan. A comprehensive work-center training plan that may include MTLs, QTPs,
AFJQS, CFETP, task breakdowns, commercial publications and any other document that supports
training.

Mobile Training Team (MTT). Instructors, trainers, training aids and operational equipment that formal
schools send to bases or operating locations used to perform formal training.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey
of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to certify
personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Plan of Instruction (POI). An AETC course document used for course planning, organization, operation
and validation. It provides course objectives, level of training provided, planned times, sequence of
instruction, required resources and specifies how course objectives are measured.

Position Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an airman in a specific position and is
accomplished after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training. Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced training courses, or
on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade.




                                                     3
Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training
process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional course designed for use at the unit to qualify
or aid qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer
based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or equipment
that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force document that is published as an attachment to the
appropriate CFETP that describes an Air Force Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may
be expected to perform or to know on the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional
user to show which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career
Development Courses (CDC), and exportable courses.

Supplemental Training. Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to required
initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly assigned equipment,
methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official

Training Business Area (TBA). – Net-Centric, GCSS-AF IF Web-Based application providing Air
Force War fighters with global, real-time visibility into the technical qualifications, certifications and
training status of logistics, communications and information professionals Air Force wide. TBA supports
base, wing and work center level training management activities by automating training management
business processes. The primary users of TBA will be any personnel directly involved in base level
training management and certification activities. TBA is being developed and maintained by 754th
Electronic Systems Group, Installation and Logistics, Maintenance Flight (754 ELSG/ILM) at Maxwell-
Gunter AFB.

Training Detachment (TD). An AETC detachment that provides maintenance oriented technical
training, at an operational location, on specific systems including their aerospace ground equipment or in
new equipment techniques and procedures. A TD qualifies personnel to maintain proficiency, increase
skill and knowledge, acquaint personnel with specific systems and keep personnel aware of changing
concepts and requirements.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job,
field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum that is convened and chaired on a recurring
basis by the AF Career Field Manager (AFCFM), designed to review the appropriate CFETP and its


                                                     4
attachments. The purpose is to ensure currency, accuracy and completeness of content, to include specific
formal career ladder training requirements. Workshops are co-chaired by AETC Training Pipeline
Manager and include MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) Functional Managers, AETC training
personnel and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs).




                                                    5
PART 1

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for the AFCFM, MFMs, commanders,
training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and
efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should
receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced and proficiency training. The CFETP also:

1.1. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the training
delivery method.

1.2. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field
training process.

2. Use of the CFETP: This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, Training Detachment
(TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II
of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining the
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and
proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy these
identified requirements. MAJCOM developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for
inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of
courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP.
The AETC training manager for AFSC 2A0X1K will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC
and MFM to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and AETC training
personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses
in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Performs and manages avionic test station functions and activities. Operates,
inspects, maintains, programs, and calibrates computer and manually operated avionic test equipment,
support equipment (SE), and aircraft avionic systems components. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup:
119800.


                                                       6
4.2. Duties and Responsibilities:

4.2.1. Avionics Test Station and Aircraft Components Specialist Apprentice and Journeyman:
Analyzes performance and isolates malfunctions of avionic test equipment, SE, and aircraft components.
Performs operational tests on test equipment, SE, and aircraft components to determine condition, analyze
performance, and isolate malfunctions in the radar, sensors, communications, weapons control, electronic
warfare (EW), and flight control and engine control systems. Traces logic, schematic, test flow, and
wiring diagrams. Uses self-test and software functions, computer and manually operated avionic test
equipment, SE, and test measurement and diagnostic equipment to determine the scope of repair and
adjustment required. Inspects, maintains, programs, and calibrates avionic equipment, SE, and aircraft
components. Removes and replaces assembly components using hand tools, soldering devices, and
electronic instruments. Repairs amplifier and logic circuits; microwave equipment; servomechanisms;
radio frequency circuits; video displays; and power supply circuits. Loads computer programs. Aligns,
calibrates, and modifies avionic test equipment, SE, and aircraft components.

4.2.2. Avionics Test Station and Aircraft Components Specialist Craftsman: Manages integrated
avionic activities and complies with directives, policies, and procedures. Complies with maintenance
standards. Initiates deficiency reports, maintenance analysis documents, technical data changes, and
equipment records. Interprets, establishes, and complies with training, security, and safety standards.
Ensures compliance with directives governing handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and
material. Records information on data collection forms and automated systems. Directs and controls
maintenance, calibration, and inspection of integrated avionic test stations and aircraft components. Plans
and organizes integrated avionic activities. Plans and organizes integrated avionic equipment assembly,
calibration, repair, modification, and maintenance activities. Plans physical layout of facilities, and
ensures SE and spare parts availability.

4.2.3. Maintenance Superintendent: Manages and directs maintenance functions and activities.
Included are areas of avionic sensors, communications and navigation, guidance and control, airborne
warning and control radar, inertial and radar navigation, airborne command post communication systems,
avionic test stations, electronic warfare (EW) systems, and avionic support equipment. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 110200.

5. Career Skill Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop, manage and conduct an
effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual
receives viable training at appropriate points in their career. Use table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path in
conjunction with information below to manage career skill progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3-level): Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to
enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the Career Development Course, Task Qualification
Training and available exportable courses for continued advancement. Once task certified, a trainee may
perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for appointment as unit trainers after
completion of a formal trainer course.




                                                      7
5.2. Journeyman (5-level). Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into continuation
training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and skill in troubleshooting and
solving more complex problems. Five-levels may be assigned job positions such as quality assurance and
various staff positions. After having 48 months in the Air Force, 5-levels will attend Airman Leadership
School (ALS) to enhance their Professional Military Education (PME). Five-levels will be considered for
appointment as unit trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion
testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a Community College of the Air
Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7-level): A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions
such as shift leader, element NCOIC, flight/section chief, and task certifier. They can also be assigned to
work in staff positions. Craftsmen should take courses to obtain added knowledge on management of
resources and personnel. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is
encouraged. In addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals will complete the Noncommissioned
Officer Academy.

5.4. Superintendent (9-level): A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief, production
supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower,
resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education. Additional higher
education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are also recommended.

6. Training Decisions: The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass
the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Avionic Test Station and Aircraft Components Career
Field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training requirements.
The strategy must be apparent and affordable training to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a
disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were made by MAJCOM Functional
Managers and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) at the career field Utilization and Training Workshop held
at Sheppard AFB, 5-13 April 2012.

6.1. Initial Skills: The working group was tasked with reviewing the entire Specialty Training Standard
of the 2A0X1S career field. Each STS line item was evaluated based on capability and method of
training, redundancy of documentation and applicability. OAR data was used to scrub requirements to
determine whether items were suited for formal training. The 2A0X1S career field was restructured into
two shreds; the 2A0X1K for the B-1, E-8, and F-15 aircraft, and the 2A0X1K for all other aircraft with
back shop maintenance responsibilities. The new 2A031K initial skills course is estimated to be 47 days
in length and will be sufficient to satisfy all initial skills training requirements.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training: The 5-level CDCs will consist of three volumes. Upgrade
requirements also include completion of core tasks and identified work center requirements for their
assigned weapons system. Completion of Advanced Wire Maintenance Course J4AMP30000 A48A PDS
Code ZIZ is required.

6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training: Completion of the 2AX7X CDC is required. Airmen in upgrade
training for 2A0X1K 7-level will be task qualified on all core tasks and identified work center
requirements for their assigned weapons system.



                                                     8
6.4 Continuation Training: All Continuation Training will be accomplished with OJT.

7. Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities. Higher education and advanced
certification is a personal choice that is encouraged for the professional development of the entire Enlisted
Force. Listed below are some current opportunities:

7.1 Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF occurs
upon completion of basic military training (BMT). CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate
in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. CCAF offers the CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program
for qualified instructors who teach CCAF collegiate-level credit awarding courses at a CCAF affiliated
school. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes the instructor's extensive faculty
development training, education and qualification required to teach a CCAF course, and formally
acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience. Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian and other
service instructors are eligible for this certification.

7.1.2. Professional Manager Certification (PMC) Program. CCAF offers the PMC for qualified
senior Air Force enlisted personnel who have demonstrated an advanced level of professional
accomplishment. The purpose of the certification is to recognize the individual’s outstanding education
and training required to lead and manage Air Force personnel and critical national defense assets. The
certification also formally acknowledges the individuals management qualifications and experience.
Qualified Air Force enlisted personnel are eligible for this certification. To learn more and enroll in the
program, visit CCAF’s website at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.1.3. FAA Airframe and Power plant (A&P) Certification. CCAF offers the Air Force A&P
Certification Program for active duty, guard and reserve aircraft maintenance technicians in specific
AFSCs. The program is designed to bridge gaps between Air Force education, training and experience
and FAA eligibility requirements per Title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 65.77. The
program benefits the Air Force by broadening the skill sets and professional development of our
technicians, producing a more skilled and diverse aircraft maintenance professional. The program
directly supports the mission of CCAF in that FAA certification of our aircraft maintenance technicians
enhances combat readiness, contributes to recruiting and retention and supports career transition of highly
skilled technicians. To learn more and enroll in the program, visit CCAF’s website at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.1.4. Other Certification Programs. CCAF is actively pursuing other licensure and certification
opportunities related to specific career fields. To learn more about other certification opportunities visit
CCAF’s website at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp .

7.2. Degree Requirements: All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to
completing an associate’s degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following requirements must be
met:
                                                                                                     Semester Hours
Technical Education ................................................................................................. 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ........................................................ 6
Physical Education..................................................................................................................4

                                                                                   9
General Education .................................................................................................... 15
Program Elective ...................................................................................................... 15
     Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
     Studies; or General Education
Total ......................................................................................................................... 64

7.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
subject courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours are applied from Technical
Core/Technical Elective courses.

7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses.

7.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic
Military Training.

7.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Courses must meet the definition of General
Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

7.2.5. Program Electives (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including natural
science courses meeting general education application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree-
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF
General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.3. AETC Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is
encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor must possess as a minimum an
associate degree or should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty Assignment (SDA)
requires an AETC instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45
semester hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                                                10
8. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A0X1 Air Force Specialty.

                                        Table 5.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                       Grade Requirements
  Education and Training Requirements                 Rank       Average    Earliest  High Year Of Tenure
                                                                 Sew-On     Sew-On          (HYT)
  Basic Military Training School
  Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)         Amn        6 months
                                                      A1C       16 months
  Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
                                                      Amn        6 months
  - Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for
                                                      A1C       16 months     28 months             8 Years
    retrainees.
                                                      SrA         3 years
  - Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  Airman Leadership School (ALS)
  - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service
    or be a SSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
    sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                       Trainer                                                   Certifier
  - Qualified and certified to perform the task to   - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and certified
    be trained.                                        to perform the task being certified
  - Must attend formal OJT Trainer Course            - Attend formal OJT Trainer Course
                                                     - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                       positions, units and/or work centers with specialized
                                                       training standardization and certification requirements.
  Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)
  - Minimum rank of SSgt.
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
  - Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for
     retrainees.                                      SSgt      5.1 years       3 years             15 Years
  - Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
     mission design aircraft.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  - Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.
  Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)              TSgt      11.1 years      5 years             20 Years
  - Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
     sew-on (Active Duty Only).                       MSgt      16.8 years      8 years             24 Years
    USAF Senior NCO Academy
    (SNCOA) - Must be a MSgt or SMSgt
    Selectee .                                       SMSgt       21 years      11 years             26 Years
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
     SMSGT sew-on.
  Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
  - Minimum rank of SMSgt.                           CMSgt       24 years      14 years             30 Years




                                                        11
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level
in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each
skill level. The specific tasks and knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II, Section E,
Specialty Training Standard (STS).

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.

10.1. Knowledge: Knowledge is mandatory of: electrical theory and avionic fundamentals, including
solid-state, binary, digital, octal, and hexadecimal numbering systems; metrology principles; computer
logic, and programming principles and language; printed circuitry; microwave, radar, and electronic
warfare principles; micro-miniature solid state devices; operating principles of avionic components
supported by test stations; electrically actuated mechanical device theory; operating principles of basic
measuring and testing devices; interpreting schematic, logic, data flow, and wiring diagrams; interpreting
programming tables and technical publications; using, caring for, and applying special, standard, and
common hand tools; interpreting testing, measuring, and referencing devices; concepts and application of
applicable maintenance directives; Air Force supply procedures; and use and disposal of hazardous waste
and material.

10.2. Education: Completion of high school is desirable with courses in physics, algebra, trigonometry,
and computer principles.

10.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.3.1. 2A031K. Completion of the avionic fundamentals (if applicable) and the apprentice avionic
systems course for the applicable suffix.

10.3.2. 2A051K. Completion of applicable Field Training Detachment (FTD) course(s) listed on the CAF
Mandatory Course List (MCL) IAW AFI 36-2232, Maintenance Training.

10.3.3. 2A071K. Completion of the 2AX7X CDC.

10.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.4.1. 2A051K. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A031K. Also, experience in functions such
as isolating malfunctions, installing line replaceable units, and using AGE necessary to maintain avionic
systems.

10.4.2. 2A071K. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A051K. Also, experience performing or
supervising functions such as installing, maintaining, or inspecting avionic systems.

10.5. For entry into this specialty: Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations
and Standards.



                                                    12
10.6. For award and retention of AFSCs 2A051K/71K, must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

10.7. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award and retention
of AFSCs 2A0X1/X, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and Credit
(NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.

11. Training Sources:

11.1 Apprentice Level Training: The initial skills courses will provide the required knowledge and
qualification training. Training encompasses basic electronic principles, system theory and operation,
system components and component removal and installation. Additionally, introduction to maintenance
concepts, general flight line maintenance practices, use of technical publications, maintenance
documentation, and support equipment are provided.

11.2 Journeyman Level Training: The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge training required.
Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core tasks identified in the
STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base, and provides more in-depth
knowledge to support OJT requirements.

11.3 Craftsman Level Training: Seven-level upgrade training will be conducted by certified trainers
using AF core tasks and unit/MAJCOM specific courses. The 7-level CDCs are written to provide
advanced, management and supervisory knowledge, and troubleshooting skills.

11.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level): Unit OJT will be used for training. In addition to 7-level
qualifications, an individual must possess advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the
management of aircraft maintenance. The 9-level needs to be an effective leader; must be able to forecast,
budget and manage funds and other resources; and must be knowledgeable of federal and local
environmental standards and ensure adherence to the proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials.

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

12. Purpose: This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimum
and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required,
office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum,
reviewed and updated annually.

13. Apprentice Level Training. No resource constraints identified.
14. Journeyman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.
15. Craftsman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

SECTION E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE- There are no transitional requirements. This area
is reserved.



                                                    13
PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard (STS)

1. Implementation: The STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and Training
Command for classes beginning 24 April 2014. The STS is organized in attachments to this document for
“General” training requirements (applicable to all MDS) and individual attachments for each MDS, Pods,
and Avionics Fundamentals.

2. Purpose: As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS (Refer to applicable attachments):

2.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks, knowledge,
and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. All
task/knowledge taught in the initial skills courses will be taught in the wartime initial skills courses.

2.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks), by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
Certification on all shop/flight line core tasks must be completed for skill level upgrade. When a base
has multiple MDSs or blocks assigned, trainees are only required to complete core task training on
MDSs or blocks assigned to their unit of assignment.

2.3. Column 3 provides certification for OJT. It is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completed date.

2.4. Column 4 (Proficiency Codes) show formal training and correspondence course requirements and
shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. When two codes are
used in columns 4A and 4B (e.g., 2b/b), the first code is the established requirement for resident training
on the task/knowledge, and the second code indicates the level of training provided in the course due to
equipment shortages or other resource constraints. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the
unit-training manager for current CDC listing.

3. Qualitative Requirements: Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the level
of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

4. Job Qualification Standard: The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in Training Business Area (TBA), On-The-Job Training Record, and used according
to AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. "Go"
means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy,
timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

4.1 Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201. Load the tasks
into TBA, as a JQS add them to the applicable Individual Training Plan (ITP).

4.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. Transcribing documentation to a new CFETP is an
administrative function, not a re-evaluation of training. Therefore, supervisor and trainer are considered


                                                     14
synonymous for the purpose of documentation. Use the new CFETP to identify past and current training
requirements and to transcribe qualifications from the previous CFETP. Annotate TBA journal entry, (for
example, ―I certify the information contained in the CFETP dated XX was transcribed to the CFETP
dated XX, and the trainee was given the superseded CFETP. Signed and dated by supervisor and trainee).
Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

5. Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT). The STS serves as a guide for development of promotion tests
used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). SKTs are developed at the USAF
Occupational Measurement Squadron, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career
fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team
members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references
listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program.
WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

6. Recommendations: Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of training
AETC graduates received. A 782 TRG Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) is available for
supervisors to identify a graduate’s training concerns on tasks/knowledge items listed in this STS. Please
reference specific STS line items and address your comments to: 782CSIL@us.af.mil or call the CSIL at
DSN 736-2574 anytime.

Section B – Course Objectives

7. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is
measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the student so he or she
knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each task. Each objective is
comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is expected of the student for each task.
The condition is the setting in which the training takes place (i.e., TOs, type of equipment, etc.). The
behavior is the observable portion of the objective (i.e., perform an operational check). The standard is
the level of performance that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained (i.e. “with
no more than two instructor assists”)

8. Objective Measurement. Each objective uses a letter code(s) to identify how it is measured. All
objectives using the PC code indicate a progress check is used to measure subject or task knowledge. W
indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or task knowledge at the end of
a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject or task knowledge progress check and a separate
measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test.

9. Objective Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for performance
objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual progress check checklist.
The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s progress, on each task. Instructor
assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or
part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all
PCs prior to taking the written test.

10. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a particular
task or knowledge item. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section A of this CFETP for an


                                                     15
explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the ‘2b’ proficiency level which
means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task
(partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.

Section C - Support Material. There are currently no support material requirements. This area is
reserved

Section D - Training Course Index.

11. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the 2A0X1K Systems
Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.
For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

       365 TRS/TRR
       511 9th Ave STE 1
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2338
       DSN 736-7901

12. Air Force In-Resident Courses.

 COURSE NO.                  COURSE TITLE                        LOCATION           USER
 E3AQR2A031K048A             Avionics Fundamentals, Test         Keesler AFB        AF
                             Stations and Aircraft
                             Components
 J3ABR2A031K048A             Avionics Test Stations and          Sheppard AFB       AF
                             Aircraft Components, A-10/B-
                             2/C-17/CV-22/F-16/AFSOC

13. Extension Course Program, AU/A4L, Courses (CDCs) website:
 http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

COURSE NO.         COURSE TITLE                                                       USER
CDC 2A051K         Avionic Test Station and Aircraft Component Journeyman             AF
CDC 2AX7X          Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                                    AF


Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements.

The Combat Air Forces Mandatory Course Listing (CAF/MCL) identifies mandatory maintenance training
requirements for initial technical school graduates, retrainees, and personnel with no experience on
assigned mission design series (MDS) aircraft. It also ensures maintenance personnel receive training
commensurate to their current duty position. All CAF/MCL courses will be identified as a priority on the
AF Form 898. The CAF/MCL applies to ACC, AETC, USAFE and PACAF personnel/units. The
CAF/MCL does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
members and units. However, it does apply to Total Force integrated units (Active Duty personnel


                                                    16
assigned to Guard bases). The CAF/MCL is posted to the ACC/A4Q at web site (under “Libraries”):
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-TE-AC-42.




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                   JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt General, USAF
                                           DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support



Attachments 9
1. Proficiency Code Key (Mandatory)
2. General Training Requirements (Mandatory)
3. A-10 Training Requirements
4. F-16 Training Requirements
5. B-2 Training Requirements
6. C-17 Training Requirements
7. AFSOC Training Requirements
8. Avionics Fundamentals (Mandatory)
9. 2AX7X CDC Requirements (Mandatory)




                                                17
                                                  Proficiency Code Key
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A0X1K

This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee:
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                              Initials (Written)                   SSAN (last 4 only)

                                          Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                       N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

                                                 QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                                  Scale        Definition: The individual
                                  Value
                                    1          IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do
                                               most of the task.)
           Task                     2          IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.)
       Performance                  3          IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
          Levels                    4          IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                                               others how to do the task.)
                                    a          KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. )
         *Task                      b          KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. )
       Knowledge                    c          KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and why
                                               each step is needed.)
          Levels                    d          KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                                    A          KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
        **Subject                   B          KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the
                                               subject.)
       Knowledge                    C          KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)
        Levels                      D          KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of
knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)
**A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject
common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
/ This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given/reduced due to limitations in resources. (3c/b, 2/b/b, 3c/-, etc.)

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency or knowledge code are trained during wartime.


                                                                                                             Attachment 1


                                                                    18
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

2 ATTACHMENT 2, GENERAL
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
2.1 CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
TR: AFECD
2.1.1 Progression in career ladder                                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.1.2 Duties of AFSC                                                                                                          -         -        -              -
2.2 SECURITY TR: DODR 5200-1;
AFSSI 4100; AFIs 31-401, 21-109, 31-
101 Vol 1, 10-1101
2.2.1 COMSEC/EMSEC
2.2.1.1 Security violations prevention                                                                                       A          B        -              -
2.2.1.2 Identify security precautions                                                                                        A          B        -              -
2.2.2 Physical Security TR: AFI 31-
101V1, DODR 5200-8
2.2.2.1 Classified equipment                                                                                                 A          B        -              -
2.2.2.2 Classified information                                                                                               A          B        -              -
2.2.2.3 Command, Control,
Communications and Computer (C4)                                                                                              -         -        -              -
systems security
2.2.2.4 System security classification
guides TR: Applicable weapons                                                                                                 -         A        -              -
security guides
2.2.2.5 Operational Security (OPSEC)
                                                                                                                             A          -        -              -
vulnerabilities of AFSC TR: AFI 10-701
2.2.2.6 Destruction of classified
                                                                                                                              -         A        -              -
information
2.3 SUPERVISION TR: AFI 21-1001,
AFPD 21-1, AFI 23-100 series and 22-
101, TO 31-175
2.3.1 Perform initial evaluation TR:
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
AFMAN 36-2108, AFI 36-2201 V3
2.3.2 Orient new personnel TR:
AFMAN 36-2108; AFIs 36-2201, 36-                                                                                              -         -        -              -
2103
2.4 TRAINING TR: AFI 36-2201
2.4.1 Evaluate personnel to
determine need for training TR: AFI                                                                                           -         -        -              -
36-2201 V3
2.4.2 Maintain training records TR:
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
AFI 36-2201 V3
2.4.3 Automated training records                                                                                             A          -        -              -
2.5 AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL
SAFETY AND HEALTH (AFOSH)

                                                                 19
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

PROGRAM
2.5.1 Hazards and AFOSH STDS of
AFSC 2A0X1 TR: AFIND 17, AFI 91-                                                                                             A          B        -              -
301
2.5.2 Work areas cleanliness and
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
safety TR: AFOSH AFI 91-203
2.5.3 Safety Practices When Working
With or in the Vicinity of
2.5.3.1 Electrical power / high
voltage TR: AFOSH STD 91-66; TOs                                                                                             A          B        -              -
31-1-141-1, 33-1-32, 00-25-232
2.5.3.2 Compressed gases TR:
AFOSH AFI 91-301; TOs00-25-234,                                                                                              A          B        -              -
42B5-1-2, 42B7-3-1-1
2.5.3.3 Hand and power tools TR:
TOs 00-25-234, 32-1-101, 32-1-151,                                                                                           A          B        -              -
32-1-2
2.5.3.4 Radioactive materials TR:
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
AFOSH STD 48-9, TO 31-1-141-9
2.5.3.5 High intensity sound TR:
                                                                                                                              -         B        -              -
AFOSH STD 48-20
2.5.3.6 Lifting devices TR: AFOSH
                                                                                                                             A          B        -              -
STD 91-46
2.5.3.7 Lasers safety TR: AFOSH STD
48-139; ANSI Z136-1.1, TOs 31-1-141-                                                                                          -         -        -              -
1, 31-1-141-3
2.5.3.8 RF Radiation                                                                                                         A          A        -              -
2.5.3.9 RF Overexposure                                                                                                      -          A        -              -
2.5.3.10 Cathode-Ray Tube (CRT)                                                                                              -          A        -              -
2.6 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS &
WASTE TR: AFI 32-7042, AFJMAN 23-
209, AFOSH STDs 48-8, , 161-21, 161-
21-1G, 161-21-1W, AFI 91-203
AFPAM32-7043, TO 42C-1-12
2.6.1 Review MSDS                                                                                                            A          -        -              -
2.6.2 Identification                                                                                                         A          -        -              -
2.6.3 Handling                                                                                                               A          -        -              -
2.6.4 Storage and labeling                                                                                                   A          -        -              -
2.6.5 Disposal                                                                                                               A          -        -              -
2.6.6 Waste minimization                                                                                                     A          -        -              -
2.7 TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS TR:
AFPD 21-3; TOs 0-1-01, 00-5-1, 00-5-2,
00-5-3, 00-5-16, 00-5-17, 00-25-06-2-

                                                                 20
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

2, 51-1-06-1, 80-0-1

2.7.1 Standard publications AFI 33-
                                                                                                                              -         A        -              -
360 V1
2.7.2 USAF TO system management                                                                                               -         -        -              -
2.7.3 USAF TO system function and
application TOs 00-5-1, 00-5-15, 00-                                                                                         A          A        -              -
5-18
2.7.4 Computer Program
Identification Number (CPIN)
System/Automated Computer
                                                                                                                             A          A        -              -
Identification Number (ACPIN) System
TR: TOs 00-5-1, 00-5-16, 00-5-17, 00-5-
18, AFI 10-703 and applicable data
2.7.5 Time compliance TO                                                                                                      -         A        -              -
2.7.6 Methods and procedures TOs
                                                                                                                              -         A        -              -
TR: TO 00-5-1
2.7.7 TO Deficiency reporting
                                                                                                                              -         A        -              -
procedures TR: TO 00-5-1
2.7.8 Electronic technical
                                                                                                                              -         A        -              -
publications
2.7.9 Use TOs to Perform: TR:
Applicable TOs
2.7.9.1 Maintenance                              *                                                                          2b          A        -              -
2.7.9.2 Part number research                     *                                                                          2b          -        -              -
2.7.9.3 Schematics wiring/block
                                                 *                                                                          2b          -        -              -
diagrams and logic trees
2.8 AIR FORCE SUPPLY DISCIPLINE TR:
AFI 21-101
2.8.1 Supply Discipline TR: AFMAN
                                                                                                                             A          A        -              -
23-110 Vol 2, Pt 13
2.8.2 Use supply cross references
USAF S-2A-1, Us Federal Logistics Data                                                                                      2b          -        -              -
(FEDLOG), D043
2.9 SUPPLY PROCEDURES
2.9.1 Asset requisition/turn-in TR:
AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 13, Chapt-3,                                                                                          -         A        -              -
Attach -3A-3
2.9.2 AF Form 2005                                                                                                          2b          -        -              -
2.9.3 Complete condition tags                    *                                                                          2b          -        -              -
2.9.4 Product Improvement
2.9.4.1 Deficiency reports TR: TO 00-
                                                                                                                              -         A        -              -
35D-54, AFSCM 21-578, Vol 2

                                                                 21
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

2.9.4.2 Input/review DR data                                                                                                  -         -        -              -
2.9.4.3 Warranty TR: AFM 64-110                                                                                               -         A        -              -
2.10 MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
AND INSPECTION TR: AFIs 21-101,38-
101
2.10.1 Duties and responsibilities of
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
shop personnel
2.10.2 Levels of maintenance TR: AFI
                                                                                                                             A          A        -              -
21-101
2.10.3 Basic functions and
responsibilities within the
                                                                                                                             A          A        -              -
maintenance organization TR: AFIs
21-101, 38-101
2.10.4 Logistics and Resource
Management
2.10.4.1 Introduction to maintenance
                                                                                                                             A          -        -              -
resource management
2.10.4.2 Logistics management TR:
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
AFI 21-101
2.10.4.3 Resource management TR:
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
AFI 65-601, Vol 1
2.10.5 Status reports TR: AFI 21-103                                                                                          -         -        -              -
2.10.6 Maintenance incident report
and prevention TR: AFIs 91-202, 91-                                                                                           -         A        -              -
204, 91-206
2.10.7 Mobility TR: AFH 10-416; AFIs
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
10-215, 10-403; AFMAN 10-100
2.10.8 Maintenance, Inspection
Systems and Forms TR: TO 00-20-1,
00-20-14
2.10.8.1 Inspections systems                                                                                                 A          A        -              -
2.10.8.2 Use maintenance forms TR:
TO 00-20-1
2.10.8.2.1 AFTO Form 350                         *                                                                          2b          -        -              -
2.10.8.2.2 AFTO Form 349                                                                                                     -          -        -              -
2.10.8.2.3 AFTO Form 244                         *                                                                          2b          A        -              -
2.10.8.2.4 AFTO Form 95                                                                                                      -          A        -              -
2.10.8.2.5 Calibration forms                             *                                                                  2b          A        -              -
2.10.8.2.6 Document automated
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
forms
2.11 JOB DATA DOCUMENTATION
(JDD) (IMDS)
2.11.1 Historical records                        *                                                                            -         -        -              -

                                                                 22
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

2.11.2 Status reports                            *                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.11.3 Configuration management
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
AFI 21-101
2.12 MAINTENANCE DATA
DOCUMENTATION (MDD)
2.12.1 Fundamentals and application
                                                                                                                             A          B        -              -
of MDD TR: TO 00-20-2
2.12.2 Reliability, Availability,
Maintainability, Pod(RAMPOD) TR:
TOs 33D7-3-326-8-1, 12P3-2A-198-1:
CPIN
2.12.2.1 Global eye principles                                                                                               A          -        -              -
2.12.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                                 *                                                                           b          -        -              -
transactions
2.12.2.3 Perform maintenance
                                                 *                                                                           b          -        -              -
inquiries
2.12.3 G081
2.12.3.1 Principles                                                                                                          A          B        -              -
2.12.3.2 Maintenance transactions                                                                                            -          B        -              -
2.12.3.3 Maintenance inquiries                                                                                               -          -        -              -
2.12.3.4 Supply transactions                                                                                                 -          B        -              -
2.12.4 Integrated Maintenance Data
System (IMDS)
2.12.4.1 IMDS principles                                                                                                    A           B        -              -
2.12.4.2 Maintenance transactions               *                                                                           2b          B        -              -
2.12.4.3 Maintenance inquiries                  *                                                                           2b          -        -              -
2.12.4.4 Supply transactions                    *                                                                           2b          B        -              -
2.12.4.5 Management/supervision/
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
training transactions
2.13 METROLOGY PRINCIPLES
2.13.1 Use calibration correction
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
charts
2.13.2 Calibrate torque devices                                                                                               -         -        -              -
2.13.3 Traceability                                                                                                           -         -        -              -
2.13.4 Portable Automatic Test
Equipment Calibrator (PATEC)
2.13.4.1 PATEC characteristics                                                                                                -         -        -              -
2.13.4.2 Operation                                      *                                                                     -         -        -              -
2.14 GENERAL MAINTENANCE
PRACTICES
2.14.1 Corrosion control                                                                                                     A          -        -              -
2.14.1.1 Clean equipment                                                                                                     -          -        -              -

                                                                 23
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

2.14.1.2 Lubricate equipment                                                                                                  -         -        -              -
2.14.1.3 Inspect equipment                               *                                                                    -         -        -              -
2.14.1.4 Pack/unpack LRUs                                                                                                     -         -        -              -
2.14.2 Perform safety wiring TO 00-
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
25-234
2.14.3 Clean optical surfaces IAW
                                                                                                                            2b          -        -              -
system Level TO
2.14.4 Remove and replace SRUs                   *                                                                          2b          -        -              -
2.14.5 Cable Repair TR: TO 00-25-234
2.14.5.1 Perform cable lacing                                                                                                 -         -        -              -
2.14.5.2 Perform video splicing                                                                                               -         -        -              -
2.14.5.3 Perform connector potting                                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.14.6 Coaxial Cable
2.14.6.1 Repair                                                                                                               -         -        -              -
2.14.6.2 Fabricate                                                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.14.7 Multipin Connectors/Cables
2.14.7.1 Repair                                  *                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.14.7.2 Fabricate                                                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.14.8 Tools TR: TO AFI 21-101
2.14.8.1 Inventory Composite Tool
                                                 *                                                                          2b          -        -              -
Kits (CTKs) TR: AFI 21-101
2.14.8.2 Inspect Composite Tool Kits
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
(CTK)
2.14.8.3 Use Tool Accounting System
                                                 *                                                                            -         -        -              -
(TAS/TCMAX)
2.14.8.4 Tool accountability TR: AFI
                                                                                                                              -         A        -              -
21-101
2.14.8.5 Use common hand tools
                                                 *                                                                          2b          -        -              -
TR: AFOSH AFI 91-203, TO 32-1-101
2.14.8.6 Use torque wrenches TR:
TO 32B14-3-1-101, Applicable systems             *                                                                          2b          B        -              -
TOs
2.14.9 Electrostatic Sensitive Device
(ESD) TR: DoD HDBK 263, DoD STD
1686, MIL STD-129, TO 00-25-234
2.14.9.1 Electrostatic Sensitive
                                                                                                                              -         B        -              -
Discharge (ESD) principles
2.14.9.2 Perform Electrostatic
                                                                                                                            2b          -        -              -
Sensitive Discharge (ESD) procedures
2.15 DIRECT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
2.15.1 Test Equipment Care and
Handling TR: TO 00-85B-3, 1-1A-15,
31-1-141-14, 42C-1-1
                                                                 24
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

2.15.1.1 Prepare for shipment                                                                                                 -         -        -              -
2.15.1.2 Prepare for storage                                                                                                  -         -        -              -
2.15.1.3 Prepare for climate
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
conditions
2.16 DATA TRANSFER EQUIPMENT
2.16.1 Data transfer principles                                                                                               -         A        -              -
2.16.2 Operate data transfer
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
equipment
2.16.3 SERENE BYTE/PACERWARE
                                                                                                                              -         A        -              -
Principles
2.17 ELECTRONIC WARFARE COMBAT
FUNDAMENTALS
2.17.1 Principles                                                                                                            A          -        -              -
2.17.2 Component types                                                                                                       A          -        -              -
2.18 RF FUNDAMENTALS
2.18.1 Principles                                                                                                            A          B        -              -
2.18.2 Component types                                                                                                       A          B        -              -
2.18.3 Isolate/identify RF
                                                *                                                                            A          B        -              -
malfunctions
2.19 TEST STATION PRINCIPLES TR:
APPLICABLE TEST STATION TO
2.19.1 Power distribution                                                                                                    A          A        -              -
2.19.2 Emergency shutdown                                                                                                    -          -        -              -
2.19.3 Stimulus devices                                                                                                      A          A        -              -
2.19.4 Measurement devices                                                                                                   A          A        -              -
2.19.5 Computer control                                                                                                      A          A        -              -
2.19.6 Bus communications standard                                                                                           A          A        -              -
2.19.7 Signal routing                                                                                                        A          A        -              -
2.20 SOFTWARE SYSTEM
2.20.1 Theory of System Software
Functions TR: Use Aircraft Specific TOs
2.20.1.1 Control & Support (C&S)
Software
2.20.1.1.1 Test Operating System
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
(TOS)
2.20.1.1.2 Test Executive (TEX)                                                                                               -         -        -              -
2.20.1.1.3 On-Line Compiler (OLC)                                                                                             -         -        -              -
2.20.1.1.4 File Manager (FMX)                                                                                                 -         -        -              -
2.20.1.1.5 Change Analysis (CAP)                                                                                              -         -        -              -
2.20.1.2 Utility Programs
2.20.1.2.1 Find align                                                                                                         -         -        -              -
2.20.1.2.2 CALS mods                                                                                                          -         -        -              -
                                                                 25
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

2.20.2 Software Procedures
2.20.2.1 Execute Software
Commands
2.20.2.1.1 Control & Support
Software
2.20.2.1.1.1 TOS                                                                                                              -            -     -              -
2.20.2.1.1.2 TEX                                                                                                              -            -     -              -
2.20.2.1.1.3 OLC                                                                                                              -            -     -              -
2.20.2.1.1.4 CAP                                                                                                              -            -     -              -
2.20.2.1.1.5 FMX                                                                                                              -            -     -              -
2.20.2.1.2 Test Software
2.20.2.1.2.1 ATE                                                                                                              -            -     -              -
2.20.2.1.2.2 ITA                                                                                                              -            -     -              -
2.20.2.1.2.3 LRU                                                                                                              -            -     -              -
2.20.2.1.3 Utility Programs
2.20.2.1.3.1 Find align                                                                                                       -            -     -              -
2.20.2.1.3.2 CALS mods                                                                                                        -            -     -              -
2.20.2.2 Use software commands to
                                                                                                                              -            -     -              -
isolate faults
2.21 TEST LANGUAGES TR: TOs 33D7-
38-111-1-3, 33D7-38-111-18-1, 33D7-
38-111-82; NA-84-110H
2.21.1 Non-test statement Analysis
2.21.1.1 Data declaration                                                                                                   2b          A        -              -
2.21.1.2 Calculate/compare                                                                                                  2b          A        -              -
2.21.1.3 Decision/branching                                                                                                 2b          A        -              -
2.21.1.4 Input/output/delay                                                                                                 2b          A        -              -
2.21.2 Test statement Analysis
2.21.2.1 Analog stimulus                                                                                                    2b          A        -              -
2.21.2.2 Analog measurement                                                                                                 2b          A        -              -
2.21.2.3 Digital test                                                                                                       2b          A        -              -
2.21.3 Protocol theory                                                                                                      2b          A        -              -
2.21.4 System procedures                                                                                                    2b          A        -              -
2.21.5 Program structure                                                                                                    2b          A        -              -
2.22 AUTOMATIC TEST EQUIPMENT
(ATE)
2.22.1 Test software                                                                                                          -            -     -              -
2.22.1.1 Confidence tests (CONF)                 *                                                                            -        -         -              -
2.22.1.2 Diagnostic tests (DIAG)                 *                                                                            -            -     -              -
2.22.1.3 Alignment tests (ALIN)                  *                                                                            -            -     -              -
2.22.1.4 Calibration tests (CALS)                        *                                                                    -            -     -              -

                                                                 26
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

2.22.1.5 Interface Test Adapter (ITA)            *                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.22.1.6 Line Replaceable Unit (LRU)             *                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.22.2 Bus communications standard                                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.22.3 Signal routing                                                                                                         -         -        -              -
2.23 USE TEST EQUIPMENT TR:
APPLICABLE EQUIPMENT
TO(S)/MANUALS
2.23.1 Universal counter                                 *                                                                    -         -        -              -
2.23.2 Power meter                                       *                                                                    -         -        -              -
2.23.3 Frequency counter                                 *                                                                    -         -        -              -
2.23.4 Scalar network analyzer                                                                                                -         -        -              -
2.23.5 Pulse generator                                   *                                                                    -         -        -              -
2.23.6 Sweep oscillator                                  *                                                                    -         -        -              -
2.23.7 Radio Frequency radiation
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
monitor
2.23.8 Oscilloscope                                                                                                           -         -        -              -
2.23.9 Spectrum analyzer                                 *                                                                    -         -        -              -
2.23.10 Signal generator                                                                                                      -         -        -              -
2.24 AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS THEORY
2.24.1 Radar systems                                                                                                         A          B        -              -
2.24.2 Navigation Systems
2.24.2.1 Inertial Navigation (INS)                                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.24.2.2 Tactical Air Navigation
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
(TACAN)
2.24.2.3 Global Positioning System
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
(GPS)
2.24.2.4 Identification Friend or Foe
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
(IFF)
2.24.2.5 Visual Omni Range/
Instrument Landing
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
System/Microwave Landing System
(VOR/ILS/MLS)
2.24.2.6 Radio/RADAR Altimeter                                                                                                -         -        -              -
2.24.2.7 Compass systems                                                                                                      -         -        -              -
2.24.3 Flight control systems                                                                                                 -         A        -              -
2.24.4 Weapons delivery systems                                                                                               -         A        -              -
2.24.5 Embedded GPS/INS                                                                                                       -         A        -              -
2.24.6 Communication Systems
2.24.6.1 UHF                                                                                                                 A          B        -              -
2.24.6.2 VHF                                                                                                                 -          -        -              -
2.24.6.3 HF                                                                                                                  -          -        -              -
2.24.6.4 Interphone/PA system                                                                                                -          A        -              -
                                                                 27
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

2.24.7 Air Data systems                                                                                                      A          B        -              -
2.24.8 Electronic Counter Measures                                                                                           -          -        -              -
2.24.9 Flight instruments                                                                                                    -          -        -              -
2.24.10 Bussing and multiplex
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
systems
2.24.11 Avionic integration and
                                                                                                                              -         A        -              -
control systems
2.24.12 Displays                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
2.24.13 Propulsion Management
Systems
2.24.13.1 Theory                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
2.25 COMMON MANUAL SYSTEMS
2.25.1 Communication Systems
2.25.1.1 UHF
2.25.1.1.1 UHF System
(AN/ARC164(C))
2.25.1.1.1.1 Radio Test Set
2.25.1.1.1.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.25.1.1.1.1.2 Operate                                                                                                        -         -        -              -
2.25.1.1.1.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
malfunctions
2.25.1.1.1.2 UHF R/T TR: TOs 12R2-
2ARC164-Series
2.25.1.1.1.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.25.1.1.1.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                            2b          -        -              -
testing
2.25.1.1.1.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
malfunctions
2.25.1.1.1.3 Radio Set Control TR:
TOs 12R2-2ARC164-32, 12R2-
2ARC164-92
2.25.1.1.1.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.25.1.1.1.3.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
testing
2.25.1.1.1.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
malfunctions
2.25.1.1.1.4 Channel Frequency
Indicator TR: TO 12R2-2ARC164-32
2.25.1.1.1.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                            -         -        -              -
2.25.1.1.1.4.2 Performance
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
maintenance testing
2.25.1.1.1.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                              -         -        -              -
malfunctions
                                                                 28
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C          D          E         A          B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)          (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course        CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

2.25.1.2 VHF
2.25.1.2.1 Perform maintenance                                                                                                -         -        -              -
2.25.1.2.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -        -              -
2.25.1.3 HF
2.25.1.3.1 Perform maintenance                                                                                                -         -        -              -
2.25.1.3.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -        -              -
2.25.2 Tactical Air Navigation
(TACAN) Mount TR: TO 12R5-4-106-8-
3
2.25.2.1 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -        -              -
2.25.2.2 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                                  -         -        -              -
2.25.3 Tactical Air Navigation
(TACAN) R/T TR: TO 12R5-4-106-8-3
2.25.3.1 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -        -              -
2.25.3.2 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                                  -         -        -              -




                                                                 29
                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                         A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials


3 ATTACHMENT 3, A-10 TRAINING
REQUIREMENTS
3.1 IAISTEST STATION
3.1.1 Emergency shutdown                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
3.1.2 Classified pre/post processing
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
TO 33D7-38-291-2
3.1.3 Peculiar ATLAS statements
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
TR: TO 33D7-38-291-18-2
3.1.4 Peculiar Subsystems TR: TO
33D7-38-291 Series
3.1.4.1 Theory of Operation
3.1.4.1.1 Interface Unit (IU)                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.4.1.2 Control and Display Unit
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(CDU)
3.1.4.1.3 Instrument Unit A (IUA)                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.1.4.1.4 Instrument Unit B (IUB)                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.1.4.1.5 Microwave Stimulus Unit
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(MSU)
3.1.4.1.6 Microwave Measurement
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Unit (MMU)
3.1.4.1.7 Power Control Unit (PCU)                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.1.8 Power Supply Unit (PSU)                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.1.4.1.9 Refrigeration unit                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.1.4.1.10 Blower unit                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
3.1.4.1.11 Frequency Changer Unit
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(FCU)
3.1.4.1.12 Optical Test Bench (OTB)                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions
3.1.4.2.1 IU                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.2 CDU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.3 IUA                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.4 IUB                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.5 MSU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.6 MMU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.7 PCU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.8 PSU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.9 Refrigeration unit                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.10 Blower unit                           *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.11 FCU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2.12 OTB                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
3.1.4.3 Perform Semi-Automatic
Tests
                                                                 30
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                         A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

3.1.4.3.1 CONF                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.3.2 DIAG                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.3.3 ALIN                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.3.4 CALS                                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
3.1.4.4 Perform Manual Alignment
and Adjustment of:
3.1.4.4.1 IU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.1.4.4.2 IUA                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.4.3 IUB                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.4.4 PCU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.4.4.5 PSU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.4.4.6 Blower unit                            *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.1.4.4.7 FCU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.4.4.8 OTB                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2 AIS COMMON TEST STATION
PROCEDURES TR: 33D7-38-111-1-
series, 33D7-38-111-81-series,
Applicable Test Station TOs
3.2.1 Operating Procedures
3.2.1.1 Perform turn-on procedures               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2.1.2 Perform standby procedure                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2.1.3 Perform shutdown
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
procedures
3.2.1.4 Perform operator inspection              *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2.1.5 Perform Periodic Inspections
3.2.1.5.1 30 day                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2.1.5.2 90 day                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2.1.5.3 180 Day                                        *                                                                   -         -         -              -
3.2.2 Perform Semi-Automatic Tests
3.2.2.1 Emergency shutdown                       *                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2.2.2 Classified pre/post
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
processing
3.2.3 Perform Manual Alignment
and Adjustment of:
3.2.3.1 SUMSS Shop Replaceable
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
Units (SRUs)
3.2.3.2 LRU power/cooling
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
subsystems
3.2.4 EPU/IEPU
3.2.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.2.4.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
                                                                 31
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                         A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

3.2.5 IFCC
3.2.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.2.5.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3 MANUAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT/
LRU MAINTENANCE
3.3.1 Direction Finder Group Test
Set (970V-1) TR: TO 33D2-8-363-1
3.3.1.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.1.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.3.2 Direction Finder Antenna (DF-
301) TR: TO 12R5-4-154-1
3.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.3.2.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.3 Antenna Test Set (AN/ARM-
115) TR: TO 33D7-35-35-1
3.3.3.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.3.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.4 FM Antenna (437S-1C) TR: TO
12R2-4-95-1
3.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.3.4.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.5 FM Signal Data Comparator
TR: TO 12R2-2ARC186-2
3.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.3.5.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.6 Miscellaneous Comm Systems
3.3.6.1 Intercommunication Panel
3.3.6.1.1 Test                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
3.3.6.1.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.3.7 Weapons Control Systems
3.3.7.1 HUD System LRU Test Set TR:
TOs 33D2-46-5 series
3.3.7.1.1 Operate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.3.7.1.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.3.7.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.7.2 HUD Boresight Fixture TR:
TO 33D7-27-14-1
                                                                 32
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                         A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

3.3.7.2.1 Operate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.3.7.2.2 Align                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.8 Stability Augmentation System
(SAS)
3.3.8.1 SAS Computer Test Set TR:
TO 33D2-33-4-1
3.3.8.1.1 Operate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.3.8.1.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.3.8.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.8.2 Rate Table TR: TO 33D3-10-
36-1
3.3.8.2.1 Operate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.3.8.2.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.3.8.2.3 Calibrate                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.8.3 SAS Control Panel TR: TO
5A13-5-17-3
3.3.8.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.3.8.3.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.8.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.3.9 Fuel Quantity Indication
System
3.3.9.1 Fuel Quantity Test Set TR: TO
33D2-3-88-1
3.3.9.1.1 Operate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.3.9.1.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.3.9.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.3.9.2 Fuel Quantity Intermediate
Device TR: TO 5L3-2-4-3
3.3.9.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.3.9.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.9.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.3.9.3 Fuel Quantity Indicator TR:
TO 5L6-3-67-3
3.3.9.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.3.9.3.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.10 Air Data and Instrument
Systems
3.3.10.1 Pneumatic Test Set (TTU-
205) TR: TO 33D7-3-60-31

                                                                 33
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                         A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

3.3.10.1.1 Operate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.3.10.1.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
3.3.10.2 Altitude Encoder Test Set
(TTU-229) TR: TO 33D7-3-101-11
3.3.10.2.1 Operate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.3.10.2.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.10.3 HSI Test Set TR: 33D2-6-
218-1
3.3.10.3.1 Operate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.3.10.3.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.10.4 Universal Attitude Indicator
Test Set TR: TO 33D3-17-9-1
3.3.10.4.1 Operate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.3.10.4.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.10.5 Alpha-Mach Computer Test
Set TR: TO 33D7-10-105-1
3.3.10.5.1 Operate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.3.10.5.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.10.5.3 Calibrate                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.3.10.6 Standby Attitude Indicator
Test Set TR: TO 33D2-6-225-1
3.3.10.6.1 Operate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.3.10.6.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.10.6.3 Calibrate                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.3.10.7 Altimeter TR: TO 5F3-3-28-2
3.3.10.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
3.3.10.7.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.10.7.3 Adjust                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.3.10.8 Vertical Velocity Indicator
TR: TO 5F8-9-12-3
3.3.10.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
3.3.10.8.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.10.9 Airspeed Indicator TR: TO
5F8-2-65-3
3.3.10.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
3.3.10.9.2 Perform maintenance                                                                                               -         -         -              -
                                                                 34
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                         A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

testing
3.3.10.10 Triple Airspeed Switch TR:
TO 8S2-9-13-3
3.3.10.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.10.10.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.10.11 Standby Attitude Indicator
(SAI) TR: TO 5F8-3-34-2
3.3.10.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.10.11.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.10.12 Alpha-Mach Computer TR:
TO 5F5-9-4-3
3.3.10.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.10.12.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.10.12.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Malfunctions
3.3.10.13 Attitude Director Indicator
(ADI) TR: TO 5F8-3-24-3
3.3.10.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.10.13.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.10.14 Horizontal Situation
Indicator (HSI) TR: TO 5F8-16-5-2
3.3.10.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.10.14.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.11 Heading Attitude Reference
System (HARS)
3.3.11.1 HARS Test Set TR: TO 33D3-
9-165-1
3.3.11.1.1 Operate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.3.11.1.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.11.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.3.11.2 Scorsby Test Stand TR: TO
33D2-8-14-171
3.3.11.2.1 Operate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.3.11.2.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.11.3 3-Axis Table TR: TO 33D3-
10-32-1

                                                                 35
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                         A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

3.3.11.3.1 Operate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.3.11.3.2 Adjust                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.3.11.4 Displacement Gyro TR: TO
5A1-9-4-2
3.3.11.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
3.3.11.4.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.11.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.11.5 Electronic Control Amplifier
TR: TO 5A1-9-4-2
3.3.11.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
3.3.11.5.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.11.5.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.11.6 Compass System Controller
TR: TO 5A1-9-4-2
3.3.11.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
3.3.11.6.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.11.6.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.12 Flight Director System
3.3.12.1 Flight Director Computer
Test Set TR: TO 33D7-3-178-1
3.3.12.1.1 Operate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.3.12.1.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.12.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.3.12.2 Flight Director Computer
TR: TO 5F5-8-7-2
3.3.12.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
3.3.12.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
3.3.12.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.13 A-10 General Avionic
Components
3.3.13.1 Navigation Mode Select
Panel TR: TO 8C21-18-2
3.3.13.1.1 Test                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.13.1.2 Isolate/repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
                                                                 36
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                         A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

malfunctions
3.3.13.2 Navigation Mode Select
Relay Box TR: TO 8R3-172-2
3.3.13.2.1 Test                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.13.2.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.13.3 Avionic Relay Box TR: TO
8R3-157-2
3.3.13.3.1 Test                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.13.4 Antenna Select Control
Panel Assembly TR: TO 8C21-2-2
3.3.13.4.1 Test                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.13.4.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.13.5 "G" Meter TR: TO 5F2-28-
32
3.3.13.5.1 Test                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.13.6 Intercommunication Panel
TR: TO 12R2-2AIC18-2
3.3.13.6.1 Test                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.3.13.6.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
3.3.13.7 Magnetic Azimuth Detector
Simulator TR: TO 33D2-8-368-1
3.3.13.7.1 Calibrate                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.3.13.7.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions




                                                                 37
                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4 ATTACHMENT 4, F-16 TRAINING
REQUIREMENTS (Units with
multiple AIS platforms will only
upgrade to 5/7 level on one platform
as determined by workcenter
supervisor)
4.1 F-16 ADVANCED COMPUTER
AVIONIC INTERMEDIATE SHOPS
(AdvAIS)
4.1.1 AdvAIS Common Test Station
Components
4.1.1.1 Theory of Operation
4.1.1.1.1 Computer subsystem and
peripherals TR: TOs 33D7-38-108
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
series, 33D7-47-115-1, 33DA7-77-1,
33DA104-10-series
4.1.1.1.2 Test station power/cooling
TR: TOs 33D7-38-111-1-series, 33D7-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
38-111-51-series, 33D7-38-111-81-
series, applicable test station TOs
4.1.1.1.3 Switching Unit
Measurement and Stimulus
Subsystem (SUMSS)TR: TOs 33D7-38-
111-1-series, 33D7-38-111-51-series,
33D7-38-111-81-series, applicable
test station TOs
4.1.1.1.3.1 Switching CCA groups                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.1.1.1.3.2 Measurement (MSS) and
Analog Interface Unit (AIU) CCA                                                                                              -         -         -              -
groups
4.1.1.1.3.3 Stimulus CCA group                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.1.1.1.3.4 Digital Interface Unit
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(DIU) CCA group
4.1.1.1.3.5 Synchro/resolver CCA
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
group
4.1.1.1.3.6 Programmable Processor
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Control (PPC) CCA group
4.1.1.1.3.7 Power/cooling CCA
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
groups
4.1.1.1.4 LRU power/cooling
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
subsystems
4.1.1.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.1.1.2.1 Computer subsystem and
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
peripherals
                                                                 38
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.1.1.2.2 Test station power/cooling                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.1.1.2.3 SUMSS TR: TOs 33D7-38-
111-1-series, 33D7-38-111-51-series,
33D7-38-111-81-series, applicable
test station TOs
4.1.1.2.3.1 Switching CCA group                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.1.1.2.3.2 MSS and AIU CCA groups              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.1.1.2.3.3 Stimulus CCA group                  *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.1.1.2.3.4 DIU CCA group                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.1.1.2.3.5 Synchro/resolver CCA
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
group
4.1.1.2.3.6 PPC CCA group                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.1.1.2.3.7 Power/cooling CCA
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
groups
4.1.1.2.4 LRU Power/cooling
subsystems TR: applicable test                                                                                               -         -         -              -
station -2 TOs
4.2 AdvAIS COMMON TEST STATION
PROCEDURES TR: 33D7-38-111-1-
series, 33D7-38-111-81-series,
applicable test station TOs
4.2.1 Operating Procedures
4.2.1.1 Perform turn-on procedures               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.1.2 Perform standby procedure                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.1.3 Perform shutdown
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
procedures
4.2.1.4 Perform operator inspection              *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.1.5 Perform periodic inspections
4.2.1.5.1 30 day                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.1.5.2 180 day                                        *                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.2.1.5.3 360 day                                        *                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.2.2 Perform semi-automatic tests
4.2.2.1 CONF                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.2.2 DIAG                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.2.3 ALIN                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.2.4 CALS                                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.2.3 Emergency shutdown                         *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.4 Classified pre/post processing             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.5 Perform manual alignment
and adjustment of:
4.2.5.1 SUMSS Shop Replaceable
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
Units (SRUs)

                                                                 39
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.2.5.2 LRU power/cooling
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
subsystems
4.2.5.3 Electrical connector
receptacle housing receiver pins and
contacts (Virginia Patch Panel)
4.2.5.3.1 Alignment of Virginia patch
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
panel
4.3 COMPUTER/INERTIAL (C/I) TEST
STATION
4.3.1 Peculiar ATLAS statements TR:
TOs 33D7-38-111-8-1, 33D7-38-111-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
71-1, 33D7-38-111-82, 33D7-38-111-
88-1
4.3.2 Peculiar Subsystems TR: TOs
33D7-3-181 series, 33D7-3-192-
series, 33D7-3-279 series
4.3.2.1 Theory of Operation of:
4.3.2.1.1 Self test adapter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.3.2.1.2 TRUs
4.3.2.1.2.1 Inertial Navigation Unit
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(INU) pedestal subsystem
4.3.2.1.2.2 Rate table                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.3.2.1.2.3 Rate table controller                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.3.2.1.2.4 A/D Converter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.3.2.1.2.5 16 Channel filter                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3.2.1.2.6 Digital Multimeter                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.3.2.1.2.7 Dual trace oscilloscope                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.3.2.1.3 SUMSS SRUs
4.3.2.1.3.1 INU/FCC interface CCA
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
group
4.3.2.1.3.2 Processor/controller
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
interface CCA group
4.3.2.1.3.3 DAC CCA group                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.3.2.1.3.4 Discrete I/O CCA group                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.3.2.1.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.3.2.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.3.2.2.1 Self test adapter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.3.2.2.2 TRUs
4.3.2.2.2.1 INU pedestal                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.3.2.2.2.2 Rate table                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.3.2.2.2.3 Rate table controller                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.3.2.2.2.4 A/D Converter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -

                                                                 40
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.3.2.2.2.5 16 Channel filter                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3.2.2.2.6 Digital Multimeter                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.3.2.2.2.7 Dual trace oscilloscope                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.3.2.3 Perform manual alignment
and adjustment of:
4.3.2.3.1 TRUs
4.3.2.3.1.1 Rate Table                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.3.2.3.1.2 Rate Table Controller                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.3.2.3.1.3 A/D Converter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.3.2.3.1.4 Digital Multimeter                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.3.2.3.2 SUMSS SRUs
4.3.2.3.2.1 INU/FCC interface CCA
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
group
4.3.2.3.2.2 Processor/controller
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
interface CCA group
4.3.2.3.2.3 DAC CCA group                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.3.2.3.2.4 Discrete I/O CCA group                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.3.2.3.3 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.3.2.3.4 Perform CALS and
adjustments
4.3.2.3.4.1 DMM                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.3.3 C/I LRU and ITA maintenance
4.3.3.1 Fire Control Navigation Panel
(FCNP) TR: TOs 5N14-3-15-series,
33D7-50-279-series, 33D7-50-1135-
series
4.3.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3.3.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.3.3.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.3.3.2 Expanded Fire Control
Computer (XFCC), and Enhanced
FCC(EFCC), and EEFCC TR: TOs 11F12-
1-series 33D7-50-284-series, 33D7-
50-663-series TOs 11F12-1-series
33D7-50-284-series, 33D7-50-663-ser
4.3.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3.3.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.3.3.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.3.3.3 Data Transfer Unit (DTU) TR:
TOs 12S2-4-13-series, 33D7-24-29-
series, 33D7-50-1027-series
4.3.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -

                                                                 41
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.3.3.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.3.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.3.3.4 Data Transfer Cartridge
(DTC)and Expanded Data Transfer
Cartridge (XDTC), and MDTC TR: TOs
12S2-4-11-series, 33D7-24-29-series,
33D7-50-1027-series
4.3.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3.3.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.3.3.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.3.3.5 Flight Control Panel (FLCP)
TR: TOs 5A13-5-20-series, 33D7-50-
358-series
4.3.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3.3.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.3.3.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.3.3.6 Rate Gyro Assembly (RGA)
TR:TOs 5A11-2-77-series, 33D7-50-
358-series
4.3.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3.3.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.3.3.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.3.3.7 Accelerometer Assembly TR:
TOs 5F2-33-series, 33D7-50-358-
series
4.3.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3.3.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.3.3.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.3.3.8 Flight Control Computer
(FLCC) TR: TOs 5A7-3-38-series, 33D7-
50-286-series
4.3.3.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3.3.8.2 Operational check                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.3.3.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.3.3.9 Electronic Component
Assembly (ECA) TR: TOs 5F22-16-
series, 33D7-50-288-series
4.3.3.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3.3.9.2 Operational check                      *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.3.3.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -



                                                                 42
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.3.3.10 Data Entry Electronics Unit
(DEEU), Enhanced Memory Extended
Capabilities DEEU (EXDEEU) TR: TOs
12S2-4-10-series, 33D7-50-666-series
4.3.3.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.3.3.10.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.3.3.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.3.3.11 Data Entry Display (DED)
TR: TOs 12S2-4-9-series, 33D7-50-
666-series
4.3.3.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.3.3.11.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.3.3.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.3.3.12 Digital Flight Control
Computer (DFLCC) TR: TOs 5A7-3-44-
series, 33D7-50-1663-series
4.3.3.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.3.3.12.2 Operational check                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.3.3.12.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.3.3.13 General Avionic Computer
(GAC) TR: TOs 11F13-14-9-series,
33D7-50-1362-series
4.3.3.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.3.3.13.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.3.3.13.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.4 DISPLAYS/INDICATORS (D/I)
TEST STATION
4.4.1 Peculiar ATLAS statements TR:
TOs 33D7-38-111-8-1, 33D7-38-111-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
71-1, 33D7-38-111-82, 33D7-38-111-
88-1
4.4.2 Peculiar subsystems TR: TOs
33D7-38-183-series, 33D7-77-32-
series, 33D7-77-71-series
4.4.2.1 Theory of operation of:
4.4.2.1.1 Self test adapter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.2.1.2 TRUs
4.4.2.1.2.1 Photometric assembly                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.4.2.1.2.2 Precision Programmable                                                                                           -         -         -              -
                                                                 43
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

Current Source (PPCS)
4.4.2.1.2.3 Raster display assembly                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.4.2.1.2.4 Video display monitor                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.4.2.1.3 SUMSS SRUs
4.4.2.1.3.1 Discrete I/O CCA group                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.4.2.1.3.2 D/I test CCA group                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.4.2.1.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.4.2.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions
4.4.2.2.1 Self test adapter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.2.2.2 TRUs
4.4.2.2.2.1 Photometric assembly                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.4.2.2.2.2 PPCS                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.4.2.2.2.3 Raster display assembly                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.4.2.2.2.4 Video display monitor                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.4.2.2.3 SUMSS SRUs
4.4.2.2.3.1 Discrete I/O CCA group                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.4.2.2.3.2 D/I test CCA group                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.4.2.2.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.4.2.3 Perform Manual Alignment
and Adjustment of:
4.4.2.3.1 TRUs
4.4.2.3.1.1 Photometric assembly                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.4.2.3.1.2 PPCS                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.4.2.3.1.3 Raster display assembly                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.4.2.3.1.4 Video display monitor                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.4.2.3.2 SUMSS SRUs
4.4.2.3.2.1 Discrete I/O CCA group                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.4.2.3.2.2 D/I test CCA group                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.4.2.3.3 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.4.2.4 Calibrate and Adjustment of:
4.4.2.4.1 Photometric assembly                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.4.3 D/I LRU and ITA Maintenance
4.4.3.1 Head-Up Display Pilot s
Display Unit (HUD PDU) TR: TOs
5N29-11-series, 33D7-50-291-series
4.4.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.4.3.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.3.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.4.3.2 Head-Up Display Electronics
Unit (HUD EU) TR: TOs 5N29-12-
series, 33D7-50-263-series
                                                                 44
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.4.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.4.3.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.3.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.4.3.3 Radar Electro Optical
Indicator Unit (REO IU) TR: TOs 12P1-
4-22-series, 33D7-50-292-series
4.4.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.4.3.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.4.3.4 Radar Electro Optical
Electronic Unit (REO EU) TR: TOs
12P1-4-23-series, 33D7-50-273-series
4.4.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.4.3.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.3.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.4.3.5 Attitude Director Indicator
(ADI) TR: TOs 5F8-3-44-series, 33D7-
50-290-series
4.4.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.4.3.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.3.6 Horizontal Situation
Indicator (HSI) TR: TOs 5F8-16-9-18-1,
33D7-50-290-series
4.4.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.4.3.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.3.7 Azimuth Indicator (ALR-69)
TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR-8-1, 33D7-50-401-
series
4.4.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.4.3.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.3.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.4.3.8 Programmable Display
Generator (PDG), Upgraded PDG
(UPDG), and XPDG TR: TOs 11F98-7-
series, 33D7-50-665-series
4.4.3.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.4.3.8.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.3.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.4.3.9 Multifunction Display (MFD)
TR: TOs 11F98-6-series, 33D7-50-664-
series
4.4.3.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -

                                                                 45
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.4.3.9.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.4.3.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.4.3.10 Wide Angle Conventional
Head-Up Display Unit (WAC HUD) TR:
TOs 5N29-14-series, 33D7-50-668-
series
4.4.3.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.4.3.10.2 Operational check                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.4.3.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                        *                                                                    -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.4.3.11 WAC Display Electronic Unit
(WAC EU) TR: TOs 5N29-15-series,
33D7-50-669-series
4.4.3.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.4.3.11.2 Operational check                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.4.3.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.4.3.12 Diffractive Optics Electronic
Unit (DO EU) TR: TOs 5N29-15-series,
33D7-50-669-series
4.4.3.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.4.3.12.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.4.3.12.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.4.3.13 Diffractive Optics Head-Up
Display Unit (DO HUD DU) TR: TOs
5N29-20-series, 33D7-50-668-series
4.4.3.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.4.3.13.2 Operational check                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.4.3.13.3 Isolate/repair
                                                         *                                                                   -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.4.3.14 HUD Boresight Alignment
Tool
4.4.3.14.1 Calibrate boresight
                                                        *                                                                    -         -         -              -
alignment tool
4.5 PROCESSOR/ PNEUMATIC (P/P)
TEST STATION
4.5.1 Peculiar ATLAS statements
TR: TOs 33D7-38-111-8-1, 33D7-38-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
111-71-1, 33D7-38-111-82, 33D7-38-
111-88-1
4.5.2 Peculiar Subsystems TR: TOs
33D7-3-180-series, 33D7-3-191-

                                                                 46
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

series, 33D7-3-282-series, 33D7-38-
185-series
4.5.2.1 Theory of Operation of:
4.5.2.1.1 Self test adapter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.2.1.2 TRUs
4.5.2.1.2.1 Threat simulator                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.2.1.2.2 Video display monitor                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.2.1.2.3 Pneumatic Function
Controllers (PFCs) and pneumatic                                                                                             -         -         -              -
load assembly
4.5.2.1.2.4 Vacuum pump and
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
manifold assembly
4.5.2.1.3 SUMSS SRUs
4.5.2.1.3.1 P/P Test CCA group                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.2.1.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.2.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions
4.5.2.2.1 Self test adapter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.2.2.2 TRUs
4.5.2.2.2.1 Threat simulator                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.2.2.2.2 Video display monitor                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.2.2.2.3 PFCs/pneumatic load
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
assembly
4.5.2.2.2.4 Vacuum pump and
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
manifold assembly
4.5.2.2.3 SUMSS SRUs
4.5.2.2.3.1 P/P Test CCA group                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.2.2.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.2.3 Perform Periodic Inspections
4.5.2.3.1 90 day                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.5.2.4 Perform Manual Alignment
and Adjustment of:
4.5.2.4.1 TRUs
4.5.2.4.1.1 Threat Simulator                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.2.4.1.2 Video Display Monitor                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.2.4.1.3 Vacuum Pump and
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Manifold Assembly
4.5.2.4.2 SUMSS SRUs
4.5.2.4.2.1 P/P Test CCA group                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.2.4.3 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.2.5 Calibrate and Adjust
4.5.2.5.1 PFCs                                                                                                               -         -         -              -

                                                                 47
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.5.3 P/P LRU and ITA Maintenance
4.5.3.1 Radar Digital Signal
Processor (AN/APG-66) TR: TOs
11F101-3-series, 33D7-50-276-series
4.5.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.5.3.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.5.3.2 Expanded Fire Control Radar
Computer (XFCRC) (AN/APG-66) TR:
TOs 11F12-5-11-series, 33D7-50-274-
series
4.5.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.5.3.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.5.3.3 Stores Control Panel TR: TOs
11B61-2-12-series, 33D7-50-264-
series
4.5.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.5.3.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.5.3.4 Missile Remote Interface
Unit (MRIU) TR: TOs 11B95-5-series,
33D7-50-272-series
4.5.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.5.3.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.5.3.5 Expanded Central Interface
Unit (XCIU) TR: TOs 11B7-7-2-series,
33D7-50-275-series
4.5.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.5.3.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.5.3.6 Jettison/Release Remote
Interface Unit (J/R RIU) TR: TOs
11B95-4-series, 33D7-50-272-series
4.5.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.5.3.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.5.3.7 Pneumatic Sensor Assembly
(PSA) (Rosemount) TR: TOs 5F25-9-
series, -50-293-series
4.5.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -

                                                                 48
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.5.3.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.5.3.8 PSA (Airesearch) TR: TOs
5F25-12-series, 33D7-50-293-series
4.5.3.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.5.3.8.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.5.3.9 Central Air Data Computer
(CADC) TR: TOs 5F5-4-28-series,
33D7-50-262-series
4.5.3.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.5.3.9.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.5.3.10 Transmission Line Coupler
(TLC) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-42-series,
33D7-50-403-series
4.5.3.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.3.10.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.3.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.5.3.11 Signal Processor (SP)
(AN/ALR-69) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-
series, 33D7-50-403-series
4.5.3.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.3.11.2 Operational check                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.3.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                         *                                                                   -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.5.3.12 Advanced Central Interface
Unit (ACIU) TR: TOs 11B47-7-4-series,
33D7-50-670-series
4.5.3.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.3.12.2 Operational check                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.3.12.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.5.3.13 Enhanced Central Interface
Unit (ECIU) TR: TOs 11B95-12-series,
33D7-50-670-series
4.5.3.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.3.13.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.3.13.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.5.3.14 Advanced Missile Remote
Interface Unit (AMRIU) TR: TOs
                                                                 49
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

11B95-10-series, 33D7-50-697-series
4.5.3.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.3.14.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.3.14.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.5.3.15 Advanced Conventional
Remote Interface Unit (ACRIU) TR:
TOs 11B95-8-series, 33D7-50-697-
series
4.5.3.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.3.15.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.3.15.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.5.3.16 Programmable Signal
Processor (PSP), and MPSP (AN/APG-
68) series TR: 33D7-50-667-series
4.5.3.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.3.16.2 Operational check                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.3.16.3 Isolate/repair
                                                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.5.3.17 Advanced Programmable
Signal Processor (APSP) (AN/APG-68)
TR: TOs 11F101-5-series, 33D7-50-
667-series
4.5.3.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.5.3.17.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.3.17.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.6 RADIO FREQUENCY (RF) TEST
STATION
4.6.1 Peculiar ATLAS Statements TR:
TOs 33D7-38-111-8-1, 33D7-38-111-
71-1, 33D7-38-111-82, 33D7-38-111-
88-1
4.6.2 Peculiar Subsystems TR: TOs
33D7-38-184-1, 33D7-38-248-1,
33DA57-3-1
4.6.2.1 Theory of Operation of:
4.6.2.1.1 Self test adapter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.2.1.2 TRUs
4.6.2.1.2.1 Microwave Stimulus
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Interface (MSI)
4.6.2.1.2.2 Microwave                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
                                                                 50
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

Measurement Unit (MMU)
4.6.2.1.2.3 Phase Noise Chassis
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(PNC)
4.6.2.1.2.4 Synthesized Signal
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Generators (SSGs)
4.6.2.1.2.5 RF switch panel                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.2.1.2.6 Power meter assembly                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.6.2.1.2.7 Pressure Test Set (PTS)                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.6.2.1.3 SUMSS SRUs
4.6.2.1.3.1 R/F test CCA group                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.6.2.1.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.6.2.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions
4.6.2.2.1 Self test adapter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.2.2.2 TRUs
4.6.2.2.2.1 MSI                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.6.2.2.2.2 MMU                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.6.2.2.2.3 PNC                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.6.2.2.2.4 SSGs                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.6.2.2.2.5 RF switch panel                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.2.2.2.6 Power meter assembly                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.6.2.2.2.7 PTS                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.6.2.2.3 SUMSS SRUs
4.6.2.2.3.1 R/F test CCA group                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.6.2.2.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.6.2.3 Perform Manual Alignments
and Adjustments
4.6.2.3.1 SUMSS SRUs
4.6.2.3.1.1 R/F test CCA group                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.6.2.3.1.2 Power/cooling
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
subsystems
4.6.2.3.2 Perform Calibration and
Adjustment
4.6.2.3.2.1 Power meter                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.6.3 RF LRU and ITA Maintenance
4.6.3.1 Radar Transmitter (AN/APG-
66)TR: TOs 11F45-2-14-series, 33D7-
50-277-series
4.6.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.6.3.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.3.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -


                                                                 51
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.6.3.2 Radar Low Power RF (LPRF)
(AN/APG-66) TR: TOs 11F45-2-15-
series, 33D7-50-282-series
4.6.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.6.3.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.3.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.6.3.3 Radar Antenna (AN/APG-66)
TR: TOs 11F5-29-series, 33D7-50-283-
series
4.6.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.6.3.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.6.3.4 E-J Amplifier Detector (AM-
6639/ALR-46) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR46-
18-1, 33D7-50-402-series
4.6.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.6.3.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.3.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.6.3.5 C-D Amplifier Detector (AM-
6971/ALR-69) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-
68-1, 33D7-50-402-series
4.6.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.6.3.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.3.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.6.3.6 Frequency Selective Receiver
System (FSRS) Receiver (ALR-69) TR:
TOs 12P3-2ALR69-12(C), 12P3-
2ALR69-18-2, 33D7-50-402-series
4.6.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.6.3.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.3.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.6.3.7 FSRS Receiver/Controller
(ALR-69) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-12(C),
12P3-2ALR69-28-2, 33D7-50-554-
series
4.6.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.6.3.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.6.3.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.6.3.8 Dual Mode Transmitter
(DMT) (AN/APG-68) TR: TOs 11F45-2-
16-series, 33D7-50-704-series
4.6.3.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -

                                                                 52
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.6.3.8.2 Operational check                      *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.6.3.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.6.3.9 Radar Modular Low Power
RF (MLPRF) (AN/APG-68) TR: TOs
11F45-2-17 series, 33D7-50-671-
series
4.6.3.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.6.3.9.2 Operational check                      *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.6.3.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions            *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.6.3.10 Radar Antenna (AN/APG-
68) TR: TOs 11F5-31-series, 33D7-50-
944-series
4.6.3.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.6.3.10.2 Operational check                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.6.3.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.6.3.11 IFF R/T (AN/APX-101) TR:
TOs 12P4-2APX101 series, 33D7-50-
281 series
4.6.3.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.6.3.11.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.6.3.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7 IMPROVED AVIONIC
INTERMEDIATE SHOP( IAIS) TEST
STATION
4.7.1 Emergency shutdown                         *                                                                          1a         -         -              -
4.7.2 Classified pre/post processing
                                                 *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
TO 33D7-38-291-2
4.7.3 Peculiar ATLAS statements TO
                                                                                                                            A          A         -              -
33D7-38-291-18-2
4.7.4 Preparation for use/shipment                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.4.1 Operating Procedures
4.7.4.1.1 Perform turn-on
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
procedures
4.7.4.1.2 Perform standby procedure              *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.4.1.3 Perform shutdown
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
procedures
4.7.4.2 Perform operator inspection              *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.4.3 Perform Periodic Inspections
4.7.4.3.1 30 day                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.4.3.2 90 day                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -

                                                                 53
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.7.4.3.3 180 day                                        *                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.5 Peculiar Subsystems TR: TO
33D7-38-291 series
4.7.5.1 Theory of Operation
4.7.5.1.1 Interface Unit (IU)                                                                                               A          A         -              -
4.7.5.1.2 Control and Display Unit
                                                                                                                            A          A         -              -
(CDU)
4.7.5.1.3 Instrument Unit A (IUA)                                                                                           A          A         -              -
4.7.5.1.4 Instrument Unit B (IUB)                                                                                           A          A         -              -
4.7.5.1.5 Microwave Stimulus Unit
                                                                                                                            B          B         -              -
(MSU)
4.7.5.1.6 Microwave Measurement
                                                                                                                            B          B         -              -
Unit (MMU)
4.7.5.1.7 Power Control Unit (PCU)                                                                                          A          A         -              -
4.7.5.1.8 Power Supply Unit (PSU)                                                                                           A          A         -              -
4.7.5.1.9 Refrigeration unit                                                                                                A          A         -              -
4.7.5.1.10 Blower unit                                                                                                      A          A         -              -
4.7.5.1.11 Frequency Changer Unit
                                                                                                                            A          A         -              -
(FCU)
4.7.5.1.12 Optical Test Bench (OTB)                                                                                         A          A         -              -
4.7.5.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions
4.7.5.2.1 IU                                     *                                                                          -          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.2 CDU                                                                                                               -          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.3 IUA                                    *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.4 IUB                                    *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.5 MSU                                            *                                                                 2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.6 MMU                                            *                                                                 2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.7 PCU                                                                                                               -          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.8 PSU                                                                                                               -          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.9 Refrigeration unit                                                                                                -          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.10 Blower unit                           *                                                                          -          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.11 FCU                                                                                                              -          -         -              -
4.7.5.2.12 OTB                                                                                                              -          -         -              -
4.7.5.3 Perform Semi-Automatic
Tests
4.7.5.3.1 CONF                                   *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.3.2 DIAG                                   *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.3.3 ALIN                                   *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.3.4 CALS                                           *                                                                  -          -         -              -
4.7.5.4 Perform Manual Alignment
and Adjustment of:
4.7.5.4.1 IU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
                                                                 54
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.7.5.4.2 IUA                                    *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.4.3 IUB                                    *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.4.4 PCU                                                                                                               -          -         -              -
4.7.5.4.5 PSU                                                                                                               -          -         -              -
4.7.5.4.6 Blower unit                            *                                                                          -          -         -              -
4.7.5.4.7 FCU                                                                                                               -          -         -              -
4.7.5.4.8 OTB                                    *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.5 IAIS LRU and ITA
Maintenance
4.7.5.5.1 Data Transfer Unit (DTU)
TR: TOs 12S2-4-13-series, 33D7-50-
1897-1
4.7.5.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.2 Expanded Data Transfer
Cartridge (XDTC), and MDTC TR: TOs
12S2-4-11-series, 33D7-50-1897-1
4.7.5.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.3 Flight Control Computer
(FLCC) TR: TOs 5A7-3-38-series, 33D7-
28-35-2, 33D7-50-1898-1
4.7.5.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.3.2 Operational check                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.4 Electronic Component
Assembly (ECA) TR: TOs 5F22-16-
series, 33D7-28-35-2, 33D7-50-1900-
1
4.7.5.5.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.4.2 Operational check                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions




                                                                 55
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.7.5.5.5 Data Entry Electronics Unit
(DEEU) and Enhanced Memory
Extended Capabilities DEEU
(EXDEEU), Common DEEU (CDEEU)
TR: TOs 12S2-4-10-series, 33D7-50-
1907-1
4.7.5.5.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.5.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.6 Fire Control Computer
(FCC), Enhanced Fire Control
Computer (EFCC), Expanded FCC
(XFCC), Common FCC (CFCC) and
EEFCC TR: TOs 11F12-1-series, 33D7-
28-35-2, 33D7-50-1911-1
4.7.5.5.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.6.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.7 Digital Flight Control
Computer (DFLCC) TR: TOs 5A7-3-44-
series, 33D7-28-35-2, 33D7-50-1899-
1
4.7.5.5.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.7.2 Operational check                   *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.7.3 Isolate/repair
                                                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.8 Wide Angle Conventional
Head-Up Display Unit (WAC HUD) TR:
TOs 5N29-14-series, 33D7-50-1908-1
4.7.5.5.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -          -         -              -
4.7.5.5.8.2 Operational check                    *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.5.8.3 Isolate/repair
                                                        *                                                                    -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.8.4 Alignment                            *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.9 WAC Display Electronic
Unit (WAC EU) TR: TOs 5N29-15-
series, 33D7-28-35-2,33D7-50-1909-1
4.7.5.5.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.9.2 Operational check                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.9.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
                                                                 56
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.7.5.5.10 Diffractive Optics Head-
Up Display Unit (DO HUD DU) TR: TOs
5N29-20-series, 33D7-50-1909-1
4.7.5.5.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.10.2 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                         *                                                                   -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.10.4 Alignment                           *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.11 Signal Processor (AN/ALR-
69) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-series,
33D7-50-1970-1
4.7.5.5.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.11.2 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                         *                                                                   -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.12 Advanced Central
Interface Unit (ACIU), Common
Central Interface Unit (CCIU) TR: TOs
11B47-7-4-series, 33D7-50-1910-1
4.7.5.5.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.12.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.12.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.13 Programmable Signal
Processor (PSP) (AN/APG-68) TR: TOs
11F101-5-series, 33D7-50-1902-1
4.7.5.5.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.13.2 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.13.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.14 Advanced Programmable
Signal Processor(APSP) (AN/APG-68)
TR: TOs 11F101-5-2-series, 33D7-50-
1902-1
4.7.5.5.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.14.2 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.14.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.15 Radar Modular Low
Power RF (MLPRF) (AN/APG-68) TR:
TOs 11F45-2-17-series, 33D7-50-
1904-1
4.7.5.5.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -

                                                                 57
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.7.5.5.15.2 Operational check                   *                                                                         2b          -         -              -
4.7.5.5.15.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.16 Radar Antenna (AN/APG-
68) TR: TOs 11F5-31-series, 33D7-50-
1905-1
4.7.5.5.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.16.2 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.16.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.17 Dual Mode Transmitter
(DMT) (AN/APG-68) TR: TOs 11F45-2-
16-series, 33D7-50-1906-1
4.7.5.5.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.17.2 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.17.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.18 MIDS/LVT TR:TO 12R2-
2USQ140-8-1, 33D7-50-2965-1
4.7.5.5.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.18.2 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.18.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.19 Advanced Conventional
Remote Interface Unit (ACRIU) TR:
TOs 11B95-8-series, 33D7-50-697-
series
4.7.5.5.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.19.2 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.19.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.20 Advanced Missile Remote
Interface Unit (AMRIU) TR: TOs
11B95-10-series, 33D7-50-697-series
4.7.5.5.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.20.2 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.20.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.21 Jettison/Release Remote
Interface Unit (J/R RIU) TR: TOs
11B95-4-series, 33D7-50-272-series
4.7.5.5.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.21.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
                                                                 58
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.7.5.5.21.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.22 Flight Control Panel
(FLCP) TR: TOs 5A13-5-20-series,
33D7-50-358-series
4.7.5.5.22.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.22.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.22.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.23 IFF R/T (AN/APX-101) TR:
TOs 12P4-2APX101 series, 33D7-50-
281 series
4.7.5.5.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.23.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.23.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.24 Embedded GPS/INS (EGI)
4.7.5.5.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.24.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.24.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.24.4 Perform Operational
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Flight Plan Load
4.7.5.5.25 SAASM EGI
4.7.5.5.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.25.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.25.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.5.5.25.4 Perform operational
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
flight plan load
4.7.5.5.26 Data Entry Display (DED)
4.7.5.5.26.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.26.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.7.5.5.26.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.7.6 Peculiar Support Equipment
4.7.6.1 Theory of Operation
4.7.6.1.1 Viper MLV TR: TO 31S5-4-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6085-11
4.7.6.1.2 EPROM Programmer
verifier ITA TR: TO 33D7-42-55                                                                                               -         -         -              -
series
4.7.6.1.3 PROM Programmer TR:                                                                                                -         -         -              -
                                                                 59
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

TO 31S5-4-1000-11
4.7.6.1.4 LRU Cooler assembly TO
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
33DA102-18-1
4.7.6.2 Use:
4.7.6.2.1 Virginia patch panel
alignment kit TR: Applicable test                                                                                            -         -         -              -
station -2 TOs
4.7.6.2.2 Pressure test set TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Applicable LRU 8-1 TO
4.7.6.2.3 CAPRE TR: 33D7-3-27-
series
4.7.6.2.3.1 EW programming                              *                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.7.6.2.3.2 AIS software updates                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.6.2.4 EPROM Programmer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Verifier ITA TR: TO 33D7-42-55 series
4.7.6.2.5 EPROM Programmer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Verifier (EPV) TR: TO 31S5-4-1000-11
4.7.6.2.6 LRU Cooling Assembly TR:
TO 33DA102-18-1
4.7.6.2.6.1 Operate                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.7.6.2.6.2 Perform Periodic
Inspections
4.7.6.2.6.2.1 60-day or 400 hour                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.6.2.6.2.2 365 day or 2400 hour                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.6.2.6.2.3 Calibrate                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.7.6.2.6.2.4 Service                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.7.6.3 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions
4.7.6.3.1 Viper MLV TR: TO31S5-4-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6085-11
4.7.6.3.2 EPROM Programmer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Verifier ITA TR: TO 33D7-42-39-11
4.7.6.3.3 EPROM Programmer
Verifier (EPV) TR: TO 31S5-4-1000-                                                                                           -         -         -              -
11
4.7.6.3.4 Pressure test set TR: TO
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
33D7-8-129-1
4.7.6.4 IAIS EPROM Programmer
Verifier (EPV)
4.7.6.4.1 Operate EPV                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.7.6.5 Air Data Test Set (ADTS)
4.7.6.5.1 Theory                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.7.6.5.2 Operate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.7.6.5.3 Isolate/repair                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
                                                                 60
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.7.6.5.4 Calibrate                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.7.6.6 HUD Boresight Alignment
Tool
4.7.6.6.1 Calibrate                                      *                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.8 F-16 SPECIFIC MANUAL SYSTEMS
4.8.1 Intercommunications Systems
4.8.1.1 Audio 1 Panel TR: TO 12R2-4-
233-4
4.8.1.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.8.1.1.2 Bench check                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.8.1.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.8.1.2 Audio 2 Panel TR: TO 12R2-4-
240-2
4.8.1.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.8.1.2.2 Bench check                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.8.1.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.8.1.3 Aux Comm Panel TR: TO
12R2-4-227-3
4.8.1.3.1 Bench check                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.8.1.3.2 Alignment                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.8.1.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.8.2 Electronic Warfare Systems
4.8.2.1 Threat Warning Auxiliary
Panel TR: TO 12P3-2ALR22
4.8.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.8.2.1.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.8.2.2 Threat Warning Prime Panel
TR: TO 12P3-2ALR22
4.8.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.8.2.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3 Misc. Systems
4.8.2.3.1 Integrated Control Panel
(ICP) TR: TOs 5N29-14-2, 5N29-20-2
4.8.2.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.1.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions

                                                                 61
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.8.2.3.2 Aft Station Control Panel
(IKP) TR: TO 11F32-2-40-2
4.8.2.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Malfunctions
4.8.2.3.3 Communications Control
Panel TR: TO 12R-4-179-2
4.8.2.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.3.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Malfunctions
4.8.2.3.4 Pilot’s Control Grip
Assembly TR: TOs 16C1-27-20-2,
16C1-27-30-2
4.8.2.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.4.2 Perform maintenance
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.8.2.3.5 Throttle Grip Assembly TR:
TOs 2JA8-24-2, 2JA8-24-12
4.8.2.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.5.2 Perform maintenance
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.5.3 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.8.2.3.6 Aft Pilot’s Control Grip
Assembly TR: TOs 16C1-27-20-2,
16C1-27-30-2
4.8.2.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.6.2 Perform maintenance                                                                                              -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.6.3 Isolate/repair                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.8.2.3.7 Aft Throttle Grip Assembly
TR: TOs 2JA8-24-2, 2JA8-24-12
4.8.2.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.7.2 Perform maintenance                                                                                              -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.7.3 Isolate/repair                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
malfunctions
                                                                 62
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.8.2.3.8 Avionic Power Panel TR:
TO 8C21-30-2
4.8.2.3.8.1 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.8.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.8.2.3.9 Digital Engine Functional
Tester (DEFT)
4.8.2.3.9.1 Theory                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.9.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.9.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.8.2.3.10 Digital Electronic Engine
Controller (DEEC) TR: TO 6J3-4-117-2
4.8.2.3.10.1 Theory                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.10.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.8.2.3.11 Engine Diagnostic Unit
(EDU) TR: TO 5E1-2-15-2
4.8.2.3.11.1 Theory                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.11.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.8.2.3.12 Engine Control Throttle
Quadrant Assembly TR: TOs 2JA8-24-
2,2JA8-24-12
4.8.2.3.12.1 Theory                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.12.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
4.8.2.3.12.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.8.2.3.13 Field Reprogramming Set
4.8.2.3.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.8.2.3.13.2 Operate                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.9 Rack Mount Improved Avionic
Intermediate Shop (R-IAIS) TEST
STATION TR: 33D7-38-321 series
4.9.1 Peculiar ATLAS statements                                                                                              -         -         -              -
 4.9.2 Operating Procedures TR:

                                                                 63
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

33D7-38-321-2
4.9.2.1 Preparation for use/shipment                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.9.2.2 Perform turn-on procedures                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.9.2.3 Perform standby procedure                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.9.2.4 Perform shutdown
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
procedures
4.9.2.5 Perform operator inspection                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.9.2.6 Perform cleaning                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.9.2.7 Perform software updates                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.2.8 Emergency shutdown                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.9.2.9 Classified pre/post processing                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.9.3 Perform Periodic Inspections
4.9.3.1 30 day                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.3.2 180 day                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.9.4 Peculiar Subsystems TR: TO
33D7-38-291 series
4.9.4.1 Theory of Operation
4.9.4.1.1 3 Bay rack assembly                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.2 Computer assembly                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.3 AC Power supply                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.4 Blower unit                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.5 Frequency changer                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.6 Interface unit                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.7 Isolation relay                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.8 Power control unit                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.9 Refrigeration unit                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.10 Optical test bench                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.11 DC power supply                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.12 Video display unit                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.13 VXI Chassis A                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.14 VXI Chassis B                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.15 VXI Chassis MU                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.16 Peculiar power supply                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.17 Self test adapter                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.9.4.1.18 Calibration adapter                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.9.4.2.1 3 Bay rack assembly                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.2 Computer assembly                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.3 AC power supply                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.4 Blower unit                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.5 Frequency changer                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
                                                                 64
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.9.4.2.6 Interface unit                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.7 Isolation relay                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.8 Power control unit                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.9 Refrigeration unit                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.10 Optical test bench                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.11 DC power supply                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.12 Video display unit                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.13 VXI Chassis A                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.14 VXI Chassis B                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.15 VXI Chassis MU                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.16 Peculiar power supply                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.17 Self test adapter                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2.18 Calibration adapter                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.3 Perform Semi-Automatic
Tests
4.9.4.3.1 CONF                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.3.2 DIAG                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.3.3 ALIN                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.3.4 CALS                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.4 Perform Manual Alignment
and Adjustment of:
4.9.4.4.1 Blower unit                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.9.4.4.2 OTB                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5 R-IAIS LRU and ITA
Maintenance
4.9.4.5.1 Data Transfer Unit (DTU)
TR: TOs 12S2-4-13-series, 33D7-50-
1897-1
4.9.4.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.2 Flight Control Computer
(FLCC) TR: TOs 5A7-3-38-series, 33D7-
28-35-2, 33D7-50-1898-1
4.9.4.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.2.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.3 Electronic Component
Assembly (ECA) TR: TOs 5F22-16-
series, 33D7-28-35-2, 33D7-50-1900-
                                                                 65
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

1
4.9.4.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.4 Data Entry Electronics Unit
(DEEU) and Enhanced Memory
Extended Capabilities DEEU
(EXDEEU), Common DEEU (CDEEU)
TR: TOs 12S2-4-10-series, 33D7-50-
1907-1
4.9.4.5.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.4.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.5 Fire Control Computer
(FCC), Enhanced Fire Control
Computer (EFCC), Expanded FCC
(XFCC), Common FCC (CFCC) and
EEFCC TR: TOs 11F12-1-series, 33D7-
28-35-2, 33D7-50-1911-1
4.9.4.5.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.5.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.6 Digital Flight Control
Computer (DFLCC) TR: TOs 5A7-3-44-
series, 33D7-28-35-2, 33D7-50-1899-
1
4.9.4.5.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.6.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.7 Wide Angle Conventional
Head-Up Display Unit (WAC HUD) TR:
TOs 5N29-14-series, 33D7-50-1908-1
4.9.4.5.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.7.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.7.4 Alignment                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.8 WAC Display Electronic
Unit (WAC EU) TR: TOs 5N29-15-
                                                                 66
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

series, 33D7-28-35-2,33D7-50-1909-1
4.9.4.5.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.8.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.8.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.9 Diffractive Optics
Electronic Unit (DO EU) TR: TOs
5N29-15-series, 33D7-50-1908-1
4.9.4.5.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.9.2 Operational check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.9.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.10 Diffractive Optics Head-
Up Display Unit (DO HUD DU) TR: TOs
5N29-20-series, 33D7-50-1909-1
4.9.4.5.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.10.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.10.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.10.4 Alignment                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.11 Signal Processor (AN/ALR-
69) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-series,
33D7-50-1970-1
4.9.4.5.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.11.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.11.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.12 Advanced Central
Interface Unit (ACIU), Common
Central Interface Unit (CCIU) TR: TOs
11B47-7-4-series, 33D7-50-1910-1
4.9.4.5.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.12.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.12.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.13 Enhanced Central
Interface Unit (ECIU) TR: TOs 11B95-
12-series, 33D7-50-1910-1
4.9.4.5.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.13.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.13.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.14 Programmable Signal
                                                                 67
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

Processor (PSP) (AN/APG-68) TR: TOs
11F101-5-series, 33D7-50-1902-1
4.9.4.5.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.14.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.14.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.15 Advanced Programmable
Signal Processor(APSP), and NPSP
(AN/APG-68) TR: TOs 11F101-5-2-
series, 33D7-50-1902-1
4.9.4.5.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.15.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.15.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.16 Radar Modular Low
Power RF (MLPRF) (AN/APG-68) TR:
TOs 11F45-2-17-series, 33D7-50-
1904-1
4.9.4.5.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.16.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.16.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.17 Radar Antenna (AN/APG-
68) TR: TOs 11F5-31-series, 33D7-50-
1905-1
4.9.4.5.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.17.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.17.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.18 Dual Mode Transmitter
(DMT) (AN/APG-68) TR: TOs 11F45-2-
16-series, 33D7-50-1906-1
 4.9.4.5.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                            -         -         -              -
 4.9.4.5.18.2 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
 4.9.4.5.18.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.19 MIDS/LVT TR: TO 12R2-
2USQ140-8-1, 33D7-50-2965-1
 4.9.4.5.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                            -         -         -              -
 4.9.4.5.19.2 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
 4.9.4.5.19.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
 4.9.4.5.20 Advanced Conventional
                                                                 68
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

Remote Interface Unit (ACRIU) TR:
TOs 11B95-8-series, 33D7-50-697-
series
4.9.4.5.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.20.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.20.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.21 Advanced Missile Remote
Interface Unit (AMRIU) TR: TOs
11B95-10-series, 33D7-50-697-series
4.9.4.5.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.21.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.21.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.22 Jettison/Release Remote
Interface Unit (J/R RIU) TR: TOs
11B95-4-series, 33D7-50-272-series
4.9.4.5.22.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.22.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.22.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.23 Flight Control Panel
(FLCP) TR: TOs 5A13-5-20-series,
33D7-50-358-series
4.9.4.5.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.23.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.23.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.24 Embedded GPS/INS (EGI)
4.9.4.5.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.24.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.24.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.24.4 Perform operational
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
flight plan load
4.9.4.5.25 SAASM EGI
4.9.4.5.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.25.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.25.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.25.4 Perform operational
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
flight plan load
4.9.4.5.26 Data Entry Display (DED)
                                                                 69
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

4.9.4.5.26.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.26.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.26.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.27 Multifunctional Display
(MFD)
4.9.4.5.27.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.27.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.27.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.28 Central Air Data
Computer (CADC)
4.9.4.5.28.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.28.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.28.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.29 Pneumatic Sensor
Assembly (PSA)
4.9.4.5.29.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.29.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.29.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.30 Color Multifunctional
Display (CMFD)
4.9.4.5.30.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.30.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.30.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
4.9.4.5.31 Expanded/Enhanced/
Upgraded/Color Programmable
Display Generator
(XPDG/EUPDG/CPDG)
4.9.4.5.31.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.31.2 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5.31.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions




                                                                 70
                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5 ATTACHMENT 5, B-2 TRAINING
REQUIREMENTS
5.1 RFAD/DIFA Test Station TR: TO
33D7-3-341-1
5.1.1 Theory of Operation
5.1.1.1 Computer and peripherals                                                                                             A         A         -              -
5.1.1.2 Analog subsystems                                                                                                    -         A         -              -
5.1.1.3 TUB and ASCOR                                                                                                        A         A         -              -
5.1.1.4 TEST STATION COOLING                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.1.1.5 Power distribution                                                                                                   -         A         -              -
5.2 RFAD/DIFA Test Station
Procedures
5.2.1 Computer Systems
5.2.1.1 Sun Computer TR: TO 31S5-
4-2977-7, 31S5-4-2879-1
5.2.1.1.1 Execute software                              *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.2.1.1.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                   *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.2.1.2 Dec/Alpha Computer TR: TO
31S5-4-2919-8-1
5.2.1.2.1 Execute software                       *                                                                           A         A         -              -
5.2.1.2.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                    *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.1.3 Computer Peripherals
5.2.1.3.1 Operate                                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.1.3.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                   *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.2.1.4 Ethernet/Ethernet Devices
TR: TOS 31R2-4-1851-7, 31S5-4-2847-
7, 31S5-4-2913-1, 31S5-4-2914-1,
31S5-4-2918-7, 31S5-4-2920-1, 31S5-
4-2940-7
5.2.1.4.1 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
5.2.1.5 HPIB Bus TR: TO 33A1-7-363-
7
5.2.1.5.1 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
5.2.2 TUB TR: TO 33D7-71-80-2
5.2.2.1 Isolate/repair malfunctions                      *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.3 Bay 1 TR: TO 33D7-3-431-1
5.2.3.1 Power Control Panel
5.2.3.1.1 Operate                                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.3.1.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
5.2.4 Bay 2 TRUs TR: TO 33D7-3-
431-1
5.2.4.1 Digital Oscilloscope
                                                                 71
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

(HP54542A)
5.2.4.1.1 Isolate malfunctions                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.4.1.2 Remove and replace                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.4.2 Pulse Generators 1 and 2
(HP8110A) TR: TO 33A1-8-1148-1,
33A1-8-1149-2
5.2.4.2.1 Isolate malfunctions                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.4.2.2 Remove and replace                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.4.3 ASCOR Matrix
5.2.4.3.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.4.3.2 Remove and replace                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions VXI
Mainframe and Sub-components TR:
TO 33D7-71-80-2
5.2.4.4.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.4.4.2 Remove and replace                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5 Bay 4 TRUs TR: TOs 33D7-3-
431-1, 33D7-71-80-2
5.2.5.1 Counter (HP53132A) TR: TOs
33A1-10-317-1, 33A1-10-319-1,
33A1-10-320-1
5.2.5.1.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.1.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.2 AFG 2020 TR: TO 31S5-4-
2939-8-1
5.2.5.2.1 Isolate malfunctions                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.2.2 Remove and replace                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.3 Wavetek 295 TR: TOs 33A1-
8-1158-1, 33A1-8-1159-2
5.2.5.3.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.3.2 Remove and replace                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.5.4 Universal Source (HP3245A)
TR: TOs 31S5-4-2913-7, 33A1-3-614-
5, 33A1-3-615-2, 33A1-3-616-1
5.2.5.4.1 Isolate malfunctions                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.4.2 Remove and replace                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.5 AC/DC Signal Switching
Matrix (HP8760A K83) TR: TO 33A1-3-
607-1
5.2.5.5.1 Isolate malfunctions                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.5.2 Remove and replace                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.6 Switch Driver (HP11713A)

                                                                 72
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

TR: TOs 33D7-72-20-1
5.2.5.6.1 Isolate malfunctions                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.6.2 Remove and replace                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.7 DC Signal Source Amplifier
(HP85127)
5.2.5.7.1 Isolate malfunctions                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.7.2 Remove and replace                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.8 Multimeter (HP3458A) TR:
TOs 33A1-12-1442-1, 33A1-13-1444-
2, 33A1-12-1445-5
5.2.5.8.1 Isolate malfunctions                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.8.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.9 Audio Analyzer (HP8903) TR:
TO 33A1-13-722-1
5.2.5.9.1 Isolate malfunctions                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.2.5.9.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.10 RS232/IEEE-488 Interface
Converter TR: TOs 33A1-7-367-1
5.2.5.10.1 Isolate malfunctions                          *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.10.2 Remove and replace                            *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6 BAY 5 TRUs TR: TO 33D7-3-
431-1
5.2.6.1 DC Supply 6 (HP6674) TR:
TOs 35C1-2-1339-1, 35C1-2-1340-1,
35C1-2-1341-2, 35C1-2-1342-2-1
5.2.6.1.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.1.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.2 Power Supply 7 (HV 350) TR:
TO 33D7-6-366-1
5.2.6.2.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.2.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.3 AC Power Source (California
Instruments 4500L) TR: TO 33D7-6-
365-7
5.2.6.3.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.3.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.4 Bus Expander (GPIB-120A)
TR: TO 31S5-4-2934-8-1
5.2.6.4.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.4.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.5 Upper/Lower AC Expansion
Box

                                                                 73
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5.2.6.5.1 Isolate/repair malfunctions                    *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.6 VXI/Computer Power
Supplies
5.2.6.6.1 Isolate/repair malfunctions                    *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.7 Power Distribution
Units/Power Strips
5.2.6.7.1 Isolate/repair malfunctions                    *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.7 BAY 7 TRUs TR: TO 33D7-3-
431-1
5.2.7.1 Data Generator (HP8000) TR:
TOs 33A1-8-1145-7, 33A1-8-1146-1
5.2.7.1.1 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.2.7.1.2 Remove and replace                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.7.2 Power Supply 4 (HP6642A)
TR: TOs 35C1-2-1339-1, 35C1-2-1340-
1
5.2.7.2.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.7.2.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.7.3 Power Supply 3a:A thru 3b:C
(HP6675A) TR: TOs 35C1-2-1339-1,
35C1-2-1342-2
5.2.7.3.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.7.3.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.8 BAY 8 TRUs TR: TO 33D7-3-
431-1
5.2.8.1 DC Loads 1, 2, and 3
(HP6050A) TR: TOs 31S5-4-2943-2,
33A1-3-617-1
5.2.8.1.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.8.1.2 Remove and replace                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.8.2 Power Supplies 1:A thru 2:D
(HP6033A, HP6038A) TR: TO 33A1-7-
371-1
5.2.8.2.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.8.2.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.8.3 DC Supplies 5, 8, and 10
(HP6672A, HP6673A) TR: TOs 35C1-2-
1339-1,35C1-2-1342-2
5.2.8.3.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.8.3.2 Remove and replace                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.8.4 Relay Box B TR: TO 33A1-7-
363-7
5.2.8.4.1 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
                                                                 74
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5.2.8.4.2 Remove and replace                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.3 B-2 SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
5.3.1 DIFA PCE Cart TR: TO 33B4-8-
11-1
5.3.1.1 Theory                                                                                                               A         A         -              -
5.3.1.2 Operation                               *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.3.1.3 Remove and Replace TRUs                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.3.2 Intermediate Roll-up Cart TR:
TO 33D7-50-2655-1
5.3.2.1 Theory                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.3.2.2 30-Day                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.3.2.3 180-Day                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
5.3.2.4 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.3.2.5 Remove and replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.3.3 Forced Air Cooling Cart (FACC)
TR: TO 35E10-31-1
5.3.3.1 Theory                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.3.3.2 Test                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.3.3.4 180-Day                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
5.4 B-2 DIFA/RFAD Maintenance
5.4.1 DIFA/RFAD Operating
Procedures TR: TO 33D7-3-431-1-1
5.4.1.1 Perform turn-on                          *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.1.2 Perform shutdown                         *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.1.3 Perform operator inspection              *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.1.4 Perform cleaning                         *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.1.5 Operate mechanical rotation
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
system
5.4.2 Perform DIFA/RFAD
Preventative Maintenance TR: TO
33D7-3-431-1-1
5.4.2.1 7-day                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.2.2 30-day                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.2.3 90-day                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.2.4 180-day                                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.3 Perform DIFA/RFAD Functional
Testing TR: TO 33D7-70-80-2, 33A1-7-
376-1, CPIN 81T
B2/AUTOCALVER/US-001-00A
5.4.3.1 Overnights                               *                                                                           -         A         -              -
5.4.3.2 Checkers                                 *                                                                           -         A         -              -
                                                                 75
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5.4.3.3 Self test                                *                                                                           -         A         -              -
5.4.3.4 Norm cal                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.3.5 Manual Cal Ver                                  *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.4.3.6 Automatic Cal Ver                        *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.4 DIFA/RFAD Classification
Procedures TR: CPIN:
81TB2/AUTODECLASS-U001-00A,
81T-B2/AUTODECLASS-U001-00D
5.4.4.1 Classify station                         *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.4.4.2 Declassify station                       *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5 LINE REPLACEABLE UNIT (LRU)
MAINTENANCE
5.5.1 Base Fixture TR: CPIN: 81T-
B2/IST-T130-00A
5.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.1.2 Test
5.5.1.2.1 Fixture                                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.1.2.2 PM                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.1.3 Repair
5.5.1.3.1 Fixture                                        *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.1.3.2 PM                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.2 Actuator Remote Terminal
(ART) TR: TO 8D1-64-21-2, 8D1-64-
21-4, CPIN: 81F-OQ498/ART-U001-
01A
5.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.2.2 Test
5.5.2.2.1 PM                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.2.2.2 LRU                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.2.3 Repair
5.5.2.3.1 PM                                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.2.3.2 LRU                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.3 Anti-Skid Control Unit (ASCU)
TR: TO 4BA8-43-2, CPIN: 81U-
OQ503/ASCU-U001-01A
5.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.3.2 Test
5.5.3.2.1 PM                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.3.2.2 LRU                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.3.3 Repair
5.5.3.3.1 PM                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.3.3.2 LRU                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
                                                                 76
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5.5.4 Audio Central Distribution Unit
(ACDU) TR: TO 12R2-4-303-Series,
CPIN: 81C-OQ470/ACDU-U001-01A
5.5.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.4.2 Test
5.5.4.2.1 PM                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.4.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.4.3 Repair
5.5.4.3.1 PM                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.4.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.5 Audio Control Panel (ACP) TR:
TO 12R2-4-304-Series, CPIN: 81C-
OQ470/ACDU-U001-01A
5.5.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.5.2 Test
5.5.5.2.1 PM                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.5.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.5.3 Repair
5.5.5.3.1 PM                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.5.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.6 Avionic Control Computer
(ACC) TR: TO 12P5-4-91-Series,CPIN:
81Q-OQ512/ACC-U001-01A
5.5.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.6.2 Test
5.5.6.2.1 PM                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.6.2.2 LRU                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.6.3 Repair
5.5.6.3.1 PM                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.6.3.2 LRU                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.7 Bus Control Unit (BCU) TR: TOs
8A3-5-60-Series, CPIN: 81Q-
OQ497/BCU-U001-01A
5.5.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.7.2 Test
5.5.7.2.1 PM                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.7.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.7.3 Repair
5.5.7.3.1 PM                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.7.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -


                                                                 77
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5.5.8 Conditioned Air System
Controller (CASC) TR: TOs 15A-2-8-
Series, CPIN: 81N-OQ469/CASC-
U001-01A
5.5.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.8.2 Test
5.5.8.2.1 PM                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.8.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.8.3 Repair
5.5.8.3.1 PM                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.8.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.9 Engine Start Control Unit
(ESCU) TR: TOs 2JA3-67-Series, CPIN:
81E-OQ474/ESCU-U001-01A
5.5.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.9.2 Test
5.5.9.2.1 PM                                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.9.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.9.3 Repair
5.5.9.3.1 PM                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.9.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.10 Engine Thrust Control Unit
(ETCU) TR: TOs 8D3-3-4-Series, CPIN:
81E-OQ468/ETCU-U001-01D
5.5.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.10.2 Test
5.5.10.2.1 PM                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.10.2.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.5.10.3 Repair
5.5.10.3.1 PM                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.10.3.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.5.11 Fire Warning and Leak
Detector (FWALD) TR: TOs 8A3-17-7-
Series, CPIN: 81E-OQ473/FWLDC-
U001-01A
5.5.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.11.2 Test
5.5.11.2.1 PM                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.11.2.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.5.11.3 Repair
5.5.11.3.1 PM                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.11.3.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
                                                                 78
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5.5.12 Flight Control Computer
(FCC) TR: TOs 5F5-13-6-Series, CPIN:
81F-OQ513/FCC-U001-01A
5.5.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.12.2 Test
5.5.12.2.1 PM                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.12.2.2 LRU                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.12.3 Repair
5.5.12.3.1 PM                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.12.3.2 LRU                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.12.4 Erase/Reprogram EEPROM
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
CCA
5.5.13 Fuel Management
Measurement Processor (FMMP) TR:
TOs 5L18-4-Series, CPIN: 81S-
OQ502/FMMP U001-01A
5.5.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.13.2 Test
5.5.13.2.1 PM                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.13.2.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.5.13.3 Repair
5.5.13.3.1 PM                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.13.3.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.5.14 Manual Fuel Control Panel
(MFCP) 8334706 TR: TOs 8D3-18-19-
Series, CPIN: 81S-OQ472/MFCP-
U001-01A
5.5.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.14.2 Test
5.5.14.2.1 PM                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.14.2.2 LRU                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.14.3 Repair
5.5.14.3.1 PM                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.14.3.2 LRU                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.15 Power Control Unit (PCU) TR:
TOs 12R5-4-224-Series, CPIN: 81F-
OQ500/PCU-U001-01A
5.5.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.15.2 Test
5.5.15.2.1 PM                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.15.2.2 LRU                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.15.3 Repair
                                                                 79
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5.5.15.3.1 PM                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.15.3.2 LRU                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.16 Power Drive Controller
(PDC)TR: TOs 8D3-3-5-Series, CPIN:
81Q-OQ505/PDC-U001-01A
5.5.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.16.2 Test
5.5.16.2.1 PM                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.16.2.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.5.16.3 Repair
5.5.16.3.1 PM                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.16.3.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.5.17 Status Monitor Remote
Terminal (SMRT) TR: TOs 8A3-17-8-
Series, CPIN: 81F-OQ467/SMRT-
U001-01A
5.5.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.17.2 Test
5.5.17.2.1 PM                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.17.2.2 LRU                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.17.3 Repair
5.5.17.3.1 PM                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.17.3.2 LRU                                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.18 Generator Control Unit (GCU)
TR: TO 8A3-5-59-2
5.5.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.18.2 Test
5.5.18.2.1 PM                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.18.2.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.5.18.3 Repair
5.5.18.3.1 PM                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.5.18.3.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.5.19 Electronic Control
Unit/Auxillary Power Unit TR: TO
8D3-6-27-Series, CPIN:
81QOQ475/ECU-U001-01A
5.5.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.19.2 Test
5.5.19.2.1 PM                                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.5.19.2.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.5.19.3 Repair
5.5.19.3.1 PM                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
                                                                 80
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5.5.19.3.2 LRU                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.6 B-2 MANUAL SUPPORT
EQUIPMENT/LRU MAINTENANCE
5.6.1 Equipment
5.6.1.1 Serial Bus Analyzer TR: TBD
5.6.1.1.1 Theory                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
5.6.1.1.2 Operate                                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.6.1.1.3 Calibrate                                      *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.6.1.1.4 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
5.6.1.2 Cable Breakout Adapter
5.6.1.2.1 Theory                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
5.6.1.2.2 Operate                                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.6.1.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions            *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.6.1.3 EPROM Erasing System
5.6.1.3.1 Theory                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
5.6.1.3.2 Operate                                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.6.1.3.3 Isolate/Repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
5.6.1.4 Relay Panel Tester TR: TO
33D7-10-280-1
5.6.1.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.6.1.4.2 Perform maintenance
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
testing
5.6.1.4.3 Calibrate                              *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.6.1.4.4 Isolate/repair malfunctions                    *                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.6.2 LRUs
5.6.2.1 Avionic Processor Control
Panel TR: TO 12R5-4-226-2
5.6.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.6.2.1.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
5.6.2.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
5.6.2.2 Angle-of-Attack Indexers TR:
TO 5F24-3-2
5.6.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.6.2.2.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
5.6.2.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
5.6.2.3 Alternate Trim Control Panel
TR: TO 8C3-14-29-2
5.6.2.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.6.2.3.2 Perform maintenance                                                                                                -         -         -              -
                                                                 81
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

Testing
5.6.2.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
5.6.2.4 Flight Control Maintenance
Panel TR: TO 8C3-14-30-2
5.6.2.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.6.2.4.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
5.6.2.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
5.6.2.5 Fuel Control Relay Panel TR:
TO 8RA1-6-2
5.6.2.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.6.2.5.2 Perform maintenance
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
testing
5.6.2.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                   *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.6.2.6 Power Control Relay Panel
TR: TO 8RA1-5-2
5.6.2.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.6.2.6.2 Perform Maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Testing
5.6.2.6.3 Isolate/Repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Malfunctions
5.6.2.7 Ground Refuel Panel TR: TO
16W7-53-2
5.6.2.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.6.2.7.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
5.6.2.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
5.6.2.8 On Board Maintenance
Printer (OBMP) TR: TO 12S2-4-21-
Series
5.6.2.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.6.2.8.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
5.6.2.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
5.6.2.9 Control Stick Grip Assembly
TR: TO 8RA1-5-2
5.6.2.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.6.2.9.2 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
5.6.2.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions            *                                                                           -         -         -              -
5.6.2.10 Miniature Airborne GPS
Receiver (MAGR) TR: TO 12R5-4-260-
8-1
                                                                 82
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5.6.2.10.1 Theory                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.6.2.10.2 Programming                          *                                                                            -         -         -              -




                                                                 83
                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

6 ATTACHMENT 6, C-17 TRAINING
REQUIREMENTS
6.1 C-17 Avionic Intermediate Shop
6.1.1 C-17 Automatic Test
Equipment (CATE) Test Station TR: TO
33D7-24-34-1; 33D7-24-34-8-1
6.1.1.1 Theory of operation
6.1.1.1.1 Druck pneumatic pressure
                                                                                                                             A         B         -              -
stimulus cart
6.1.1.1.2 Display unit test set                                                                                              A         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.3 Measurement subsystem                                                                                              A         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.4 Stimulus subsystem                                                                                                 A         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.5 Power Subsystem
6.1.1.1.5.1 Test system power                                                                                                A         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.5.2 LRU system power                                                                                                 A         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.6 Switching subsystem                                                                                                A         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.7 Interface connection
                                                                                                                             A         B         -              -
assembly
6.1.1.1.8 Computer subsystem and
                                                                                                                             A         B         -              -
peripherals
6.1.1.2 Software System
6.1.1.2.1 Execute Personal ATLAS
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Work Station (PAWS)
6.1.1.2.2 Execute national
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
instruments measurement test studio
6.1.1.3 Test Station operation TR:
TOs 33D7-24-34-1; 33D7-24-34-8-1
6.1.1.3.1 Perform initial power-up                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.1.3.2 Perform daily turn-
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
on/shut-down
6.1.1.3.3 Perform confidence test                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.1.3.4 Perform functional test                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.1.3.5 Perform tier 1 and tier 2
                                                         *                                                                   -         -         -              -
CAL/VER tests
6.1.1.3.6 Perform special tests                          *                                                                   -         -         -              -
6.1.1.4 Test Station Maintenance
TR: TOs : 33D7-24-34-1; 33D7-24-34-
8-1
6.1.1.4.1 Perform periodic
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
maintenance
6.1.1.4.2 Isolate malfunctions using
                                                         *                                                                   -         -         -              -
PAWS
6.1.1.4.3 Isolate malfunctions using                     *                                                                   -         -         -              -
                                                                 84
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

test studio
6.1.1.4.4 Minor test station repair                     *                                                                    -         -         -              -
6.1.1.4.5 Advanced test station
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
repair
6.1.2 Head Up Multifunction Tester
(HMT)
6.1.2.1 Theory of operation
6.1.2.1.1 Display unit test set                                                                                              -         A         -              -
6.1.2.1.2 Measurement subsystem                                                                                              -         A         -              -
6.1.2.1.3 Stimulus subsystem                                                                                                 -         A         -              -
6.1.2.1.4 Power Subsystem
6.1.2.1.4.1 Test system power                                                                                                -         -         -              -
6.1.2.1.4.2 LRU system power                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
6.1.2.1.5 Switching subsystem                                                                                                -         -         -              -
6.1.2.1.6 Interface connection
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
assembly
6.1.2.1.7 Computer subsystem and
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
peripherals
6.1.2.1.8 Software system
6.1.2.1.8.1 Execute Personal ATLAS
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Work Station (PAWS)
6.1.2.1.8.2 Execute national
instruments measurements test                                                                                                -         -         -              -
studio
6.1.2.2 Test Station operation TR: TOs
33D7-24-38-1; 33D7-24-38-8-1
6.1.2.2.1 Perform initial power-up                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.2.2.2 Perform daily turn-on/shut-
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
down
6.1.2.2.3 Perform confidence test                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.2.2.4 Perform functional test                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.2.2.5 Perform tier 1 and tier 2
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
CAL/VER tests
6.1.2.2.6 Perform special tests                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.2.3 Test Station Maintenance TR:
TOs : 33D7-24-38-1; 33D7-24-38-8-1
6.1.2.3.1 Perform periodic
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
maintenance
6.1.2.3.2 Isolate malfunctions using
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
PAWS
6.1.2.3.3 Isolate malfunctions using
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
test studio
6.1.2.3.4 Minor test station repair                      *                                                                   -         -         -              -
                                                                 85
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

6.1.2.3.5 Advanced test station
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Repair
6.1.3 Display Unit Test Set TR: TO
33B4-11-17-1
6.1.3.1 Perform initial/daily turn-on            *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.3.2 Test Set Maintenance
6.1.3.2.1 Perform periodic
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
inspections
6.1.3.2.2 Isolate malfunctions                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
6.1.3.2.3 Repair test set                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
6.1.3.2.4 Perform alignment                              *                                                                   -         -         -              -
6.1.3.2.5 Calibrate test set                             *                                                                   -         -         -              -
6.1.4 Basic Interface Test Adapter
6.1.4.1 Perform wrap around test                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.4.2 Isolate and repair
                                                         *                                                                   -         -         -              -
malfunction
6.1.4.3 Perform periodic inspections             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.5 Aerial Delivery Locks Control
Panel TR: TOs 8D3-18-13-2, 8D3-18-
13-8-1
6.1.5.1 Perform operational check                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.5.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.1.6 Aerial Delivery System
Controller TR: TOs 8D3-34-2-2, 8D3-
34-2-8-1
6.1.6.1 Perform operational check                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.6.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.1.7 Antiskid/Brake Temperature
Monitor Control Unit TR: TOs 4B A8-
42-2, 4B A8-42-8-1
6.1.7.1 Perform operational check                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.7.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.1.8 Air Data Computer TR: TOs
5N5-13-24-2, 5N5-13-24-8-1
6.1.8.1 Perform operational check                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.8.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.1.9 Actuator Flight Control Panel
TR: TOs 5A44-12-2, 5A44-12-8-1
6.1.9.1 Perform operational check                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.9.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.1.10 Automatic Pilot Control
Indicator TR: TOs 5A13-5-24-2, 5A13-

                                                                 86
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

5-24-8-1

6.1.10.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.10.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.11 Central Aural Warning
Computer TR: TOs 8C15-11-4-2,
8C15-11-4-8-1
6.1.11.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.11.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.12 Cargo Delivery System
Control Status Panel TR: TOs 8D3-18-
12-2. 8D3-18-12-8-1
6.1.12.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.12.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.13 Communications Equipment
Controller TR: TOs 12R2-4-255-2,
12R2-4-255-8-1
6.1.13.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.13.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.14 Communication-Navigation
Equipment Controller TR: TOs 12R2-
4-255-2, 12R2-4-255-8-2
6.1.14.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.14.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.15 Core Integrated Processor TR:
TOs 5N5-13-29-2, 5N5-13-29-8-1
6.1.15.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.15.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.16 Data Entry Keyboard TR: TOs
5N5-13-23-2, 5N5-13-23-8-1
6.1.16.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.16.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.17 Mission Computer Display
Unit TR: TOs 5N29-23-2, 5N29-13-23-
8-1
6.1.17.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.17.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.18 Multifunction Display Unit
TR: TOs 5N29-19-2, 5N29-19-8-1,
5N29-37-2
6.1.18.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.18.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -

                                                                 87
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

6.1.19 Environmental Control
System Controller TR: TOs 15 A8-5-
88-2, 15A8-5-88-8-1
6.1.19.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.19.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.20 Electronic Engine Control TR:
TOs 8A3-5-56-2, 8A3-5-56-8-1
6.1.20.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.20.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.21 Environmental System-Fire
Detection Control Panel TR: TOs
8D24-41-2, 8D24-41-8-1
6.1.21.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.21.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.22 Engine-Thrust Rating Panel
Display TR: TOs 5E6-5-6-2, 5E6-5-6-8-
1
6.1.22.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.22.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.23 Flight Control Computer TR:
TOs 5A7-3-45-2, 5A7-3-45-8-1
6.1.23.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.23.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.24 Fluid Purity Controller TR:
TOs 15X23-2-2, 15X23-2-8-1
6.1.24.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.24.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.25 Fuel Quantity Computer TR:
TOs 6J3-4-122-2, 6J3-4-122-8-1
6.1.25.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.25.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.26 Fuel System-Engine Start
Control Panel TR: TOs 8D24-40-2,
8D24-40-8-1
6.1.26.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.26.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.27 Ground Refueling Control
Panel TR: TOs 8D24-36-2, 8D24-36-8-
1
6.1.27.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.27.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.28 Hydraulic System Control TR:

                                                                 88
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

TOs 8D27-4-2-1
6.1.28.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.28.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.29 Hydraulic System Control
Panel TR: TOs 8D24-39-2, 8D24-39-8-
1
6.1.29.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.29.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.30 Head-Up Display Unit TR: TOs
5N29-22-2, 5N29-22-8-1
6.1.30.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.30.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                     *                                                                   -         -         -              -
6.1.30.3 Perform CRT Adjustment                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.31 Interphone control panel (IRP)
TR: TO 12R2-4-255-2
6.1.31.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.31.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.32 Intercommunications Set
Control TR: TOs 12R2-4-255-2, 12R2-
4-255-8-3
6.1.32.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.32.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.33 Liquid Quantity Indicator TR:
TOs 8C21-48-2, 8C21-48-8-1
6.1.33.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.33.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.34 Multifunction Control Panel
TR: TOs 5N6-9-10-2, 5N6-9-10-8-1
6.1.34.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.34.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.35 Manifold Failure Detection
Controller TR: TOs 6J28-4-2, 6J28-4-8-
1
6.1.35.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.35.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.36 Pilots/ copilots control Grip
5F25-26-2
6.1.36.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.36.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.37 Propulsion Data Management
Computer TR: TOs 5F1-7-6-2, F1-7-6-
8-1

                                                                 89
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

6.1.37.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.37.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.38 Spoiler Control-Electronic
Flap Computer TR: TOs 5A6-3-46-2,
5A6-3-46-8-1
6.1.38.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.38.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.39 Signal Data Converter TR: TOs
12P5-4-88-2, 12P5-4-88-8-1
6.1.39.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.39.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.40 Sensor Signals Interface TR:
TOs 5F8-21-5-2, 5F8-21-5-8-1
6.1.40.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.40.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.41 Video Integrated Processor
TR: TOs 12P5-95-8-1; 12P5-4-95-2;
33D7-42-9-5-1
6.1.41.1 Perform operational check              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.41.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions            *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.42 Warning and Caution
Annunciator Panel TR: TOs 8D15-9-
30-2, 8D15-9-30-8-1
6.1.42.1 Perform operational check                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.42.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.43 Warning and Caution
Computer TR: TOs 8D15-13-11-2,
8D15-13-11-8-1
6.1.43.1 Perform operational check               *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.43.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                     *                                                                   -         -         -              -
6.2 General Support Equipment
6.2.1 Operate Theodolite TO 49A8-
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
20-1
6.2.2 Operate/maintain electrical
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
load bank TO 35CA1-3-11-1
6.2.3 HUD purge set                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.2.4 Desiccator test set                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
6.2.5 OFPLS TR: TO 33D7-42-9-5-1
6.2.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  A         -         -              -
6.2.5.2 Perform OFP
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
loading/verifying
6.2.5.3 Perform TAWS database                    *                                                                           -         -         -              -

                                                                 90
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

loading/verifying
6.2.5.4 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.3 C-17 Specific Manual Systems
6.3.1 Intercommunications Systems
6.3.1.1 Public Address Amplifier TR:
TO 12R2-4-301-2
6.3.1.1.1 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
6.3.1.1.2 Alignment                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.3.1.2 Public Address Control TR:
TOs 12R2-4-255-2, 12R2-4-255-8-1
6.3.1.2.1 Perform maintenance
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
testing
6.3.1.2.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions            *                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.3.1.3 Interphone Station Unit TR:
TOs 12R2-4-255-2, 12R2-4-255-8-1
6.3.1.3.1 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
6.3.1.3.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
6.3.1.4 Headsets
6.3.1.4.1 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
6.3.1.4.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
6.3.2 Navigation Systems
6.3.2.1 Color Weather Radar TR: TOs
12P6-2APS133-12, 12P6-2APS133-32,
12P6-2APS133-42
6.3.2.1.1 RTA-1FB(M)
6.3.2.1.1.1 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
6.3.2.1.1.2 Alignment                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
6.3.2.1.1.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
6.3.2.1.2 Radar Antenna AS-3440A
TR: TO 12P6-2APS133-42
6.3.2.1.2.1 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
6.3.2.1.2.2 Alignment                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
6.3.2.1.3 Radar Control Box C-12034
TR: TO 12P6-2APS133-32
6.3.2.1.3.1 Perform maintenance
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
testing
6.3.2.1.3.2 Alignment                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
                                                                 91
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

6.3.2.1.3.3 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions




                                                                 92
                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7 ATTACHMENT 7 AFSOC BACKSHOP
TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
7.1 DIRECT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
SOF (COMM/NAV) OFF-EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE
7.1.1 Care for and handle test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment TR: 1-1A-15, 31-1-141-14
7.2 Use/Maintain System Test
Sets/Support Equipment TR: 00-20-7
7.2.1 Document AFTO Form 244                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
7.2.2 Document automated forms                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.3 AN/APQ-170 TEST PROGRAM
SET (TPS) TR: 33D7-44-350-1, 33D7-
44- 360-1, 33D7- 44-361-1, 33E7-44-
362-1
7.3.1 Perform Operational Check
7.3.1.1 Receiver/transmitter                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
7.3.1.2 Signal Processor Computer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SPC)
7.3.1.3 Signal Data Converter (SDC)                                                                                          -         -         -              -
7.3.1.4 Power supply                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
7.3.2 Troubleshoot
7.3.2.1 Receiver/transmitter                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
7.3.2.2 Signal Processor Computer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SPC)
7.3.2.3 Signal Data Converter (SDC)                                                                                          -         -         -              -
7.3.2.4 Power supply                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
7.4 ELECTRICAL ELECTRONIC
EQUIPMENT TEST STATION (EEETS)
AN/APQ-170 TR: 33A -1-5-531-1,
33A1-5- 531-4
7.4.1 Setup                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.4.2 Self Test                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.4.3 Inspect                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
7.4.4 Troubleshoot
7.4.4.1 Computer Control Memory
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Unit (CCMU)
7.4.4.2 Signal Generator Converter
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SGC)
7.4.4.3 Converter Interface (CI)                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.4.4.4 Service printer (2225HP)                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.4.5 Perform utility program
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
operations
                                                                 93
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.4.6 Perform calibration
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
verification
7.5 AN/APQ-180 EEETS ANCILLARY
EQUIPMENT TR: 33A1-5-531-1, 33A1-
5-531- 4
7.5.1 Setup                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.5.2 Inspect                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
7.5.3 Troubleshoot
7.5.3.1 Fan, vane axial                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
7.5.3.2 Signal data converter                                                                                                -         -         -              -
7.5.3.3 Power distribution panel                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.5.3.4 Waveguide pressurization
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
unit
7.5.3.5 Liquid cooling unit                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.5.3.6 Hydraulic power supply                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.5.3.7 Triaxial measuring system                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.6 AN/APQ-180 Test Program Set
(TPS) TR: 33D-6-360-1, 33D-6-360-4,
33D-29- 103-1, 33D-29-103-4, 33D-
35-70-1, 33D- 35-70-4, 33D-7-50-
2191-1, 33D7-50- 2191-4
7.6.1 Perform operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.6.2 Radar Data Processor/ Radar
Signal Processor (RDP/ RSP) Test                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Program Set (TPS)
7.6.3 Analog-Digital
Converter/Receiver- Exciter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
(ADC/RE) TPS
7.6.4 Low Voltage Power Supply
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(LVPS) TPS
7.6.5 Transmitter TPS                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
7.6.6 Antenna TPS                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.6.7 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.6.8 Radar Data Processor/ Radar
Signal Processor (RDP/ RSP) Test                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Program Set (TPS)
7.6.9 Analog-Digital Converter/
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Receiver-Exciter (ADC/RE) TPS
7.6.10 Low Voltage Power Supply
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(LVPS) TPS
7.6.11 Transmitter TPS                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
7.6.12 Antenna TPS                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.6.13 Interphone system TPS TR:                                                                                             -         -         -              -
                                                                 94
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

33D7-50-2157-1, 33D7-50- 157-4
7.6.14 Perform operational check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.6.15 Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
7.7 RADAR SYSTEMS (SOF OFF
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE)
7.7.1 AN/APQ-170 Radar Using
Aircraft Radar Test Station (ARATS)
TR: 12P2-2APQ-170 Series
7.7.1.1 Perform Minimum
Performance Check
7.7.1.1.2 X-band antenna                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
7.7.1.1.3 Ku-band antenna                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.7.1.1.4 X-RT                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.7.1.1.5 Ku-RT                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.7.1.1.6 Signal Processor Computer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SPC)
7.7.1.1.7 Signal Data Converter (SDC)                                                                                        -         -         -              -
7.7.1.1.8 Power Supply (SPS)                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
7.7.1.2 Align
7.7.1.2.1 X-band antenna                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
7.7.1.2.2 Ku-band antenna                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.7.1.2.3 X-RT                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.7.1.2.4 Ku-RT                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.7.1.2.5 Power Supply (SPS)                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
7.7.1.3 Repair/Troubleshoot
7.7.1.3.1 X-band antenna                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
7.7.1.3.2 Ku-band antenna                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.7.1.3.3 X-RT                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.7.1.3.4 Repair Ku-RT                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
7.7.1.3.5 Signal Processor Computer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SPC)
7.7.1.3.6 Signal Data Converter
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SDC)
7.7.1.3.7 Power Supply (SPS)                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
7.7.1.4 Repair and phase match X-
and Ku-band waveguides using                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
HP8510
7.7.1.5 Perform manual operation
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
test
7.7.1.6 Perform freespace radiation
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
test
7.7.1.7 Remove and Install
                                                                 95
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.7.1.7.1 Shop Replaceable Units
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SRU)
7.7.1.7.2 Components                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
7.7.1.7.3 Operate peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.7.1.7.4 Inspect peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.7.1.7.5 Calibrate peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.7.2 AN/APQ-170 Radar Using Test
Program Sets TR: 12P2-2APQ-170
Series
7.7.2.1 Operate/Inspect/Calibrate                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.7.2.2 Remove/Install Shop
Replaceable Units (SRU) or                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
Components
7.7.2.3 Perform Minimum
Performance Checks
7.7.2.3.1 X-RT                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.7.2.3.2 Ku-RT                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.7.2.3.3 Signal Processor Computer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SPC)
7.7.2.3.4 Signal Data Converter
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SDC)
7.7.2.3.5 Power supply                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
7.7.2.4 Troubleshoot
7.7.2.4.1 X-RT                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.7.2.4.2 Ku-RT                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.7.2.4.3 Signal Processor Computer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SPC)
7.7.2.4.4 Power Supply                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
7.7.3 AN/APQ-180 Radar TR: 12P2-
2APQ-180 Series
7.7.3.1 Perform Minimum
Performance Checks
7.7.3.1.1 Analog/Digital Converter
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(ADC)
7.7.3.1.2 Radar Data Processor
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(RDP)
7.7.3.1.3 Radar Signal Processor
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(RSP)
7.7.3.1.4 Receiver/Exciter (RE)                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.7.3.1.5 Transmitter                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
                                                                 96
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.7.3.1.6 Low Voltage Power Supply
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(LVPS)
7.7.3.1.7 Antenna                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.7.3.2 Troubleshoot
7.7.3.2.1 Analog/Digital Converter
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(ADC)
7.7.3.2.2 Processor (RDP)                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.7.3.2.3 Processor (RSP)                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.7.3.2.4 Exciter (RE)                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
7.7.3.2.5 Transmitter                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
7.7.3.2.6 Low Voltage Power Supply
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(LVPS)
7.7.3.2.7 Antenna                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.7.3.3 Remove and Install
7.7.3.3.1 Shop Replaceable Units
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SRU)
7.7.3.3.2 Components                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
7.7.3.4 Operate peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.7.3.5 Inspect peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.7.3.6 Calibrate peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.7.4 AN/APQ-150 RADAR TR: 12P5-
2APQ-150-12
7.7.4.1 Perform Minimum
Performance Checks
7.7.4.1.1 Control indicator                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.7.4.1.2 Receiver/transmitter                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.7.4.1.3 Signal processor                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.7.4.1.4 Set group                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
7.7.4.2 Align
7.7.4.2.1 Control indicator                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.7.4.2.2 Receiver/transmitter                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.7.4.2.3 Signal processor                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.7.4.3 Troubleshoot
7.7.4.3.1 Control indicator                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.7.4.3.2 Receiver/transmitter                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.7.4.3.3 Signal processor                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.7.4.3.4 Set group                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
7.7.4.4 Remove and install
7.7.4.4.1 Shop Replaceable Units                                                                                             -         -         -              -
                                                                 97
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

(SRU)
7.7.4.4.2 Components                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
7.7.4.5 Operate peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.7.4.6 Inspect peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.7.4.7 Calibrate peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.8 COMMUNICATIONS /
NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (SOF OFF-
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE)
7.8.1 AIC-38/40 INTERPHONE
SYSTEM Using Test Program Sets
(TPS) TR: 12R2-Series
7.8.1.1 Perform Minimum
Performance Check
7.8.1.1.1 Communications Control
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Unit (CCU)
7.8.1.1.2 Communications Station
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Unit (CSU)
7.8.1.2 Troubleshoot
7.8.1.2.1 Communications Control
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Unit (CCU)
7.8.1.2.2 Communications Station
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Unit (CSU)
7.8.1.3 Remove and Install
7.8.1.3.1 Shop Replaceable Units
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SRU)
7.8.1.3.2 Components                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
7.8.2 AN/ARN-151 GPS System TR:
12R5-2ARN-151-2
7.8.2.1 Perform minimum
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
performance checks
7.8.2.2 Remove and Install
7.8.2.2.1 Shop Replaceable Units
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(SRU)
7.8.2.3 Operate peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.8.2.4 Inspect peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment
7.8.2.5 Calibrate peculiar test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
equipment


                                                                 98
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.9 GENERAL COMPUTER COMPLEX
(AFSOC) OFF-EQUIPMENT
(Instruments/Fire Control)
MAINTENANCE
7.9.1 Mission Data Processing
System TR: 33D2-8-413-8-1
7.9.1.1 Bench check / repair load
mission computer OFP using PLV or                                                                                            -         -         -              -
CAPRE
7.9.2 Fire Control / Data
Management Center
7.9.2.1 Bench Check
7.9.2.1.1 Display generator unit TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
12R5-4-235-8-1,
7.9.2.1.2 Battle management
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
multiplexer TR: 12R5-4-236-8-1
7.9.2.2 Bench Check / Repair
7.9.2.2.1 Electronic control unit TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
11W1-15-16-8-1
7.9.2.2.2 Loader weapons control
panels TR: 11W1-15-16-8-2, 11W2-8-                                                                                           -         -         -              -
33-8-1
7.9.2.2.3 Cockpit mounted
multifunction display TR: 12R2-4-                                                                                            -         -         -              -
292-8-1
7.9.2.2.4 Horizontal situation video
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
display TR: 12R2-4-297-8-1
7.9.2.2.5 Display generator unit TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
12R2-4-314-8-1
7.9.2.2.6 Battle management
multifunction display TR: 12S6-4-                                                                                            -         -         -              -
69-8-1
7.9.2.2.7 40MM Control amplifier
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
TR: 11W2-8-33-8-1
7.9.2.2.8 105MM Control amplifier
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
TR: 11W2-8-33-8-1
7.9.2.2.9 Control display unit TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
5N1-5-4-8-1-WA-1, 5N1-5-4-4-WA-1
7.10 GENERAL NAVIGATION
SYSTEMS (AFSOC) (OFF-EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE)
7.10.1 Flight Director Systems
7.10.1.1 Bench Check
7.10.1.1.1 Attitude Directional                                                                                              -         -         -              -
                                                                 99
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

Indicator (ADI) TR: 5F8-3-20-13
7.10.1.1.2 Horizontal Situation
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Indicator (HSI) TR: 33A1-3-147-31
7.10.1.1.3 MD-1 Vertical gyro TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
5F1-3-2-12
7.10.2 Inertial Navigation System
7.10.2.1 Bench Check/Repair
7.10.2.1.1 Mission computer J-box
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
TR: 11F8-4-19-1
7.10.2.1.2 Head-Up Display TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
11F15-3-20-8-1
7.10.2.1.3 Pilots display unit TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
5N5-15-5-8-1
7.10.2.1.4 SRL 9” monitor TR: 31S5-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4-3275-2-WA-1
7.10.2.1.5 SRL 14” Computer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
monitor TR 31S5-4-3275-2-WA-1
7.11 FLIGHT INSTRUMENTS (AFSOC)
(OFF- EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE)
7.11.1 Bench Check
7.11.1.1 Altimeters TR: 5F3-3-19-2,
5F3-3-16-2, 5F3-3-3-3,5F3-3-8-3, 5F3-                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3- 3-13, 5F3-2-3-3
7.11.1.2 Vertical Velocity Indicator
(VVI) TR: 5F8-9-13, 5F8-9-8-3, 5F8-9-                                                                                        -         -         -              -
12-3
7.11.1.3 Airspeed indicator TR:
5F8-2-25-6, 5F8-2-27-43, 5F8-2-58-                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3, 5F8-2-9-3, 5F8 -2-5-3
7.11.1.4 Air data computer TR: 5F5-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4-46-8-1
7.12 ENGINE INDICATING SYSTEM
(AFSOC) (OFF-EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE)
7.12.1 Bench Check
7.12.1.1 Turbine inlet temperature
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
indicator TR: 1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1
7.12.1.2 Tachometer indicator TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1
7.12.1.3 Tachometer generator TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1
7.12.1.4 Torque indicator TR: 1C-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
130H-2-00GE-00-1
7.12.1.5 Oil pressure indicator TR:                                                                                          -         -         -              -
                                                                100
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1
7.12.1.6 Fuel flow indicator TR: 1C-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
130H-2-00GE-00-1
7.12.1.7 Fuel flow power supply TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1
7.13 LIQUID QUANTITY (AFSOC)
(OFF- EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE)
7.13.1 Bench Check
7.13.1.1 Oil quantity indicator TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
33A1-9-36-1
7.13.1.2 Oil quantity transmitter TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
5L14-3-8-323
7.13.1.3 Fuel quantity summation
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
unit TR: 5L14-5-4-3
7.14 MISCELLANEOUS SYSTEMS
(AFSOC) (OFF-EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE)
7.14.1 Slave Switching System
7.14.1.1 Bench check 26 VAC
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
reference panel TR: Local checklist
7.14.2 Bench Check / Repair
7.14.2.1 Slave switching unit TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Local checklist
7.14.2.2 Switching unit control TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Local checklist
7.14.2.3 Equipment power panel TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Local checklist
7.14.2.4 Track handle TR: Local
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
checklist
7.14.2.5 Ballistic computer TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
11F12-14-8-8-2, 11F12-14-8-2
7.14.3 Trainable Weapons Fire
Control Interface
7.14.3.1 Bench check ready / fire
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
panel TR: Local checklist
7.14.3.2 Boresight adjust panel
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
TR: 1C-130(A)H-2-14
7.15 OFF-EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE AFSOC (ELECTRONIC
WARNING) TR: 00-25-234, 1-1A-15
7.15.1 Reprogramming Support
Equipment TR: Applicable System and
Equipment Technical Orders/
Directives
                                                                101
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.15.1.1 Access and download
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
software/files from the DDS
7.15.1.2 Configure software                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.15.2 AN/AAR-44A Infrared
Warning Receiver
7.15.2.1 Perform checkout/repair on
control display unit TR: TO 12P6-                                                                                            -         -         -              -
2AAR44-12
7.15.2.2 Perform checkout/repair on
signal processor unit TR: TO 12P6-                                                                                           -         -         -              -
2AAR44-12
7.15.2.3 Perform checkout/repair on
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
sensor unit TR: TO 12P6-2AAR44-12
7.15.2.4 Operate and troubleshoot
charge unit TR: TO 33D2-28-19-1,                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Para 4-3, 5-3
7.15.2.5 Troubleshoot with unit test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
set TR: TO 33D7-13-102-11
7.15.3 AN/APR-46 Panoramic
Receiver
7.15.3.1 Perform LRU pre-
installation check TR: TO 12P3-                                                                                              -         -         -              -
2APR46-2, 12P3-2APR46-2-1, para 3.6
7.15.3.2 Perform unit level test of C-
115A TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2, Para                                                                                              -         -         -              -
11.4
7.15.3.3 Perform unit level test of C-
125A TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2, Para                                                                                              -         -         -              -
12.4
7.15.3.4 Perform unit level test of C-
135 TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2-1, Para                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.4
7.15.3.5 Perform unit level
test/alignment of TN-118A TR: TO                                                                                             -         -         -              -
12P3-2APR46-2, Para 7.4, 7.5
7.15.3.6 Perform unit level
test/alignment of TN-130TR: TO                                                                                               -         -         -              -
12P3-2APR46-2, Para 9.4, 9.5
7.15.3.7 Perform unit level
test/alignment of ES-3 TR: TO 12P3-                                                                                          -         -         -              -
2APR46-2, Para 7.4, 7.5
7.15.3.8 Perform unit level
test/alignment of MD-127A TR: TO                                                                                             -         -         -              -
12P3-2APR46-2, Para 10.4, 10.5
                                                                102
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.15.3.9 Perform unit level
test/alignment of MD-127B TR: TO                                                                                             -         -         -              -
12P3-2APR46-2-1, Para 6.4, 6.5
7.15.3.10 Perform unit level test of
CP-100 TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2-1,                                                                                               -         -         -              -
Para 7.4
7.15.3.11 Perform unit level test of
MD-100 TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2-1,                                                                                               -         -         -              -
Para 9.4
7.15.3.12 Perform unit level test of
Omni antenna TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2, Para 6.3
7.15.3.13 Perform MPT of APM-474
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
test set TR: TO 33D7-13-224-1, Ch 5
7.15.3.14 Perform functional check
of hot mockup TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2, Para 3.4.2, 3.4.3, and 12P3-
2APR46-2-1, Para 3.6
7.15.4 AN/ALQ-172 I-LEVEL MX
7.15.4.1 Remove/Install SRU TR: TO
12P3-2ALQ172- XXX
7.15.4.1.1 LRU-1                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.2 LRU-2                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.3 LRU-3                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.4 LRU-4                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.5 LRU-5                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.6 LRU-6                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.7 LRU-10                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.8 LRU-14                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.9 LRU-15                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.10 LRU-17                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.11 LRU-18                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.12 LRU-19                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.13 LRU-20                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.1.14 LRU-21                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.2 Enhanced Maintenance
Test Station (EMTS) ALQ-172
Maintenance TR: 12P3-2ALQ-172-
218-1 or -227-1 and CPINS
7.15.4.2.1 Power up/power down                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.15.4.2.2 Configure EMTS software
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
for Station and LRU testing

                                                                103
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.15.4.2.3 Operate EMTS execution
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
menu functions
7.15.4.2.4 Run RF cable calibration
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
test program
7.15.4.2.5 Test EMTS instruments
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
and switches (rack selftest)
7.15.4.2.6 Load ALQ-172 database
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
into LRUs
7.15.4.3 Run Full/Abbreviated Go-
Chain
7.15.4.3.1 V1 System level                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.2 V3 System level                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.3 LRU-1                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.4 LRU-2                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.5 LRU-3                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.6 LRU-4                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.7 LRU-5                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.8 LRU-6                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.9 LRU-10                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.10 LRU-14                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.11 LRU-15                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.12 LRU-18                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.13 LRU-19                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.14 LRU-20                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3.15 LRU-21                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4.4 EMTS-Unique Maintenance
7.15.4.4.1 Perform preventive
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
maintenance
7.15.4.4.2 Verify/calibration of
commercial and noncommercial test                                                                                            -         -         -              -
equipment
7.15.4.4.3 Remove/replace
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
defective assemblies
7.15.4.4.4 Reconfigure/load system
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
computer software
7.15.4.4.5 Troubleshoot test set
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
faults
7.15.5 AN/USM-464 Flightline Test
Cart
7.15.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
7.15.5.2 Remove/apply power TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
TO 33D7-13-85-1

                                                                104
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.15.5.3 Perform OBIT TR: TO 33D7-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
13-85-1
7.15.5.4 Perform ICAL TR: TO 33D7-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
13-85-1
7.15.5.5 Remove/install
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
subassemblies TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1
7.15.5.6 Perform scheduled
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
inspections TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1
7.16 CV-22 TRAINING
REQUIREMENTS
7.16.1 CV-22 Reconfigurable
Transportable Consolidated
Automated Support System (RTCASS)
7.16.1.1 RTCASS Peculiar Software
System
7.16.1.2 Application Software
7.16.1.2.1 Computer diagnostics                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.2.2 Instrument Self-test (IST)            *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.2.3 Self-Maintenance
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
Automatic Test (SMAT)
7.16.1.2.4 Self-test wraparound                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.2.5 Calibration                                   *                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.16.1.2.6 LRU programs                          *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions Using:
7.16.1.3.1 Test Operating Interface
(TOI) Graphic User Interface (GUI)
7.16.1.3.1.1 Instrument Self-Test
(IST) Tab
7.16.1.3.1.1.1 Self-test                         *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3.1.1.2 Alignment                         *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3.1.2 Health Monitor (GUI)
7.16.1.3.1.2.1 Temperature screen                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3.1.2.2 Voltage screen                                                                                                -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3.1.3 VXI Fans screen                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3.1.4 Maintenance screen                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3.1.5 Interrupts screen                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3.1.6 Device status screen                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3.1.7 Station Tab
7.16.1.3.1.7.1 Runtime Totalizer
                                                         *                                                                   -         -         -              -
(RTT)
7.16.1.3.1.7.2 Assets screen                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3.1.7.3 Debug screen                                                                                                  -         -         -              -

                                                                105
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.16.1.4 RTCASS Functional Test
7.16.1.4.1 Perform Online Analysis
7.16.1.4.1.1 Instrument Self-test
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
(IST)
7.16.1.4.1.2 Self-Maintenance
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
Automatic Test (SMAT)
7.16.1.4.1.3 Self test wraparound                *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.4.1.4 Calibration using PATEC                     *                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.16.1.4.1.5 Computer diagnostics                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.16.1.5 RTCASS Isolate/Repair
Malfunctions
7.16.1.5.1 Self test ITA/ID                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.16.1.5.2 SMAT ID                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.5.3 SMAT/CAL ID                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
7.16.1.5.4 LRU ITAs/IDs TR:
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Applicable maintenance manuals
7.16.1.5.5 Test Replaceable Units
7.16.1.5.5.1 Operator Interface
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Module (1B1)
7.16.1.5.5.2 Fan assembly (1B2)                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.5.5.3 Power distribution unit
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(1B3)
7.16.1.5.5.4 Electromagnetic
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Interface (EMI) (1B4)
7.16.1.5.5.5 RF Measurement
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Interface Unit (RFIU) (2B3)
7.16.1.5.5.6 Ancillary Panel Assembly
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(AIP) (2B4)
7.16.1.5.5.7 General purpose
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
interface (1A2)
7.16.1.5.5.8 RF synthesizer (2A3A1,
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2A3A2, and 2A5A1)
7.16.1.5.5.9 Communication panel
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(2A3A3)
7.16.1.5.5.10 135 VAC power supply
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(2A5PS1 thru 2A5PS3)
7.16.1.5.5.11 Low frequency
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
calibrator (2A6A1)
7.16.1.5.5.12 General purpose
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
interface (1A2)
7.16.1.5.5.13 Printer                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
7.16.1.5.6 Digital Test Unit (1A1)
7.16.1.5.6.1 VXI-Multisystem                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
                                                                106
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

Extension Interface (MXI) controller
module(1A1A0)
7.16.1.5.6.2 M927 Series channel
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
card (1A1A3 Thru 1A1A9)
7.16.1.5.6.3 M918 Digital (CRB)
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Central Resource Board (1A1A10)
7.16.1.5.6.4 Front mount power
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
supply (1A1PS1 and 1A1PS2)
7.16.1.5.7 Analog Test Instruments
(1A3)
7.16.1.5.7.1 VXI-Multisystem
Extension Interface (MXI) controller                                                                                         -         -         -              -
module (1A3A0)
7.16.1.5.7.2 Ai 710 32-Channel
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(1A3A1, A2, A3)
7.16.1.5.7.3 SMP 1100 Carrier power
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
switch (1A3A4)
7.16.1.5.7.4 SMP 1200 Carrier RF and
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
power switch (1A3A5)
7.16.1.5.7.5 SMP 7600 5 Watt
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Resistive Load (LWPL) (1A3A5M5)
7.16.1.5.7.6 SMP 2011 12 Power
switch (SPDT Switches) (1A3A5M4                                                                                              -         -         -              -
and M3)
7.16.1.5.7.7 SMP 1200 Carrier LF and
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
RF switch (1A3A7)
7.16.1.5.7.8 SMP 6101 (1 x 4 Coaxial
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Trees) (1A3A7M2 and M5)
7.16.1.5.7.9 SMP 5002 50 Ch LF
switch (SPDT Switches) (1A3A7M1                                                                                              -         -         -              -
and M0)
7.16.1.5.7.10 SMP 5003 26 Ch LF
switch (SP4T Switches) (1A3A7M4                                                                                              -         -         -              -
and M3)
7.16.1.5.7.11 Digitizer/digital o-
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
scope (1A3A9)
7.16.1.5.8 DC Power Supply (1A4 and
1A5)
7.16.1.5.8.1 32 VDC Power supply
(1A4PS1 thru 1A4PS5 and 1A5PS1                                                                                               -         -         -              -
thru 1A5PS3)
7.16.1.5.8.2 100 VDC power supply
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(1A5PS4)
7.16.1.5.8.3 Active load (1A4A1)                                                                                             -         -         -              -
                                                                107
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.16.1.5.8.4 450 VDC power supply
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(1A5PS5 and 1A5PS6)
7.16.1.5.9 LF Instrument Unit (2A1)
7.16.1.5.9.1 VXI-Multisystem
Extension Interface (MXI) controller                                                                                         -         -         -              -
module (2A1A0)
7.16.1.5.9.2 Digital Multimeter
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(2A1A1)
7.16.1.5.9.3 Frequency timer interval
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
counter (2A1A2)
7.16.1.5.9.4 Synchro/resolver
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(2A1A3)
7.16.1.5.9.5 Racal 3156B Arbitrary
Waveform Generator (AWFG)                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
(2A1A4)
7.16.1.5.9.6 Bi-410 Bus Test
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Instrument (BTI) (2A1A5)
7.16.1.5.9.7 Pulse Generator (PGEN)
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(2A1A10)
7.16.1.5.9.8 Timing Generator
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(TGEN) (2A1A11)
7.16.1.5.9.9 Rubidium reference
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
module (2A1A12)
7.16.1.5.10 PS/2 Computer (2A2A1)
7.16.1.5.10.1 Environmental monitor
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
CCA (2A2A1A1)
7.16.1.5.10.2 Central processor unit
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
CCA (2A2A1A3)
7.16.1.5.10.3 IEEE-488 CCA
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(2A2A1A5 thru 2A2A1A7)
7.16.1.5.10.4 Video Pattern
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
Generator (VPG) CCA (2A2A1A9)
7.16.1.5.10.5 Ethernet (RJ-45)
communication bus (2A2A1A11 and                                                                                              -         -         -              -
2A2A1A12)
7.16.1.5.10.6 Relay driver CCA
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(2A2A1A13)
7.16.1.5.11 RF Measurement Unit
(2A4)
7.16.1.5.11.1 Spectrum analyzer
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(2A4A1)
7.16.1.5.11.2 RF power meter
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(2A4A2)
7.16.1.5.12 AC Power Supply
                                                                108
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.16.1.5.12.1 135 VAC power supply
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
(2A5PS1 thru 2A5PS3)
7.16.1.6 LRU Maintenance
7.16.1.6.1 Flight Control Computer
(FCC)
7.16.1.6.1.1 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.1.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.2 Standby Flight Display
(SFD)
7.16.1.6.2.1 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.2.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.3 Control Display Unit (CDU)
7.16.1.6.3.1 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.3.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.4 Flight Director Mode
Select (FDP)
7.16.1.6.4.1 Operation check                     *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.4.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.5 CDU Keyboard Unit (KU)
7.16.1.6.5.1 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.5.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.6 Landing Gear Control Unit
(LGCU)
7.16.1.6.6.1 Operational check                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.6.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.7 Regulated Converter (RC)
7.16.1.6.7.1 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.7.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.8 Advanced Mission
computer (AMC)
7.16.1.6.8.1 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.8.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.9 Air Data Unit (ADU)
7.16.1.6.9.1 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.9.2 Isolate/repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
                                                                109
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

malfunctions
7.16.1.6.10 Environmental Control
System (ECSC)
7.16.1.6.10.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.10.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.11 Light Weight Inertial
Navigation System (LWINS)
7.16.1.6.11.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.11.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
Malfunctions
7.16.1.6.12 Cockpit Interface Unit
(CIU)
7.16.1.6.12.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.12.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.13 Avionic Bay Interface
Unit (ABIU)
7.16.1.6.13.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.13.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.14 Wing Interface Unit
(WIU)
7.16.1.6.14.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.14.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.15 Fuel Management Unit
(FMU)
7.16.1.6.15.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.15.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.16 Drive System Interface
Unit (DSIU)
7.16.1.6.16.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.16.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.17 Vibration/Structural Life
and Engine Diagnostics (VSLED)
7.16.1.6.17.1 Operation check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.17.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.18 Wing Fire Protection
Controller (WFPC)

                                                                110
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.16.1.6.18.1 Operation check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.18.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.19 Blade Fold Control Unit
(BFCU)
7.16.1.6.19.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.19.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.20 Communication
Switching Unit (CSU)
7.16.1.6.20.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.20.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.21 Intercommunications Set
Control (ISC)
7.16.1.6.21.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.21.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.22 Remote Frequency
Indicator Select (RFIS)
7.16.1.6.22.1 Operation check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.22.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.23 Primary Lighting Control
Unit (PLCU)
7.16.1.6.23.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.23.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.24 Secondary Lighting
Control Unit (SLCU)
7.16.1.6.24.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.24.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.25 Forward Cabin Control
Station (FCCS)
7.16.1.6.25.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.25.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.26 Active Vibration
Suppression System (AVSS)
7.16.1.6.26.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.26.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions

                                                                111
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.16.1.6.27 Master Ice Protection
Control Unit (MIPCU)
7.16.1.6.27.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.27.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.28 Ground Refuel/De-fuel
Panel (GRDP)
7.16.1.6.28.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.28.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.29 Dual Digital Map System
(DDM)
7.16.1.6.29.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.29.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.30 Multifunction Display
(MFD)
7.16.1.6.30.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.30.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.31 Display Electronics Unit II
(DEU II)
7.16.1.6.31.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.31.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.32 Central De-ice
Distributor (CDD)
7.16.1.6.32.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.32.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.33 Nacelle Ice Protection
Control Unit (NIPCU)
7.16.1.6.33.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.33.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.34 Nacelle Interface Unit
(NIU)
7.16.1.6.34.1 Operational check                  *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.34.2 Isolate/repair
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.35 Auxiliary Power
Unit/Electronic Control Unit
(APU/ECU)

                                                                112
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                   SPECIAL OPS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

7.16.1.6.35.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.35.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.6.36 Ice Detection Control
Unit (IDCU)
7.16.1.6.36.1 Operational check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
7.16.1.6.36.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions
7.16.1.7 Miscellaneous Tasks
7.16.1.7.1 Software Updates
7.16.1.7.1.1 Test station software
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
update
7.16.1.7.1.2 Test Program Set (TPS)
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
software update
7.16.1.7.1.3 Station archive (RTT and
                                                 *                                                                           -         -         -              -
Cal Files)
7.16.1.7.1.4 Restore (RTT and Cal
                                                         *                                                                   -         -         -              -
Files)
7.16.1.7.2 Memory Loader/Verifier
Set (AN/USQ131B)
7.16.1.7.2.1 Operation and use                   *                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.1.7.3 TTU-405 Air Data Test Set
7.16.1.7.3.1 Operation and use                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.7.4 Calibration Cart/PATEC
7.16.1.7.4.1 Operation and use                           *                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.16.1.7.5 IETMS
7.16.1.7.5.1 Operation and use                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.7.6 Facility Ground Test
7.16.1.7.6.1 Operation and use                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.7.7 400 Hz Convertor
7.16.1.7.7.1 Operation and use                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.7.8 Mobile Maintenance
Facilities (MMF)
7.16.1.7.8.1 Operational check                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.16.1.7.8.2 Isolate/repair
                                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
malfunctions




                                                                113
                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                      AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials


8 ATTACHMENT 8 AVIONIC
FUNDAMENTALS
8.1 AVIONIC SUPPORT SUBJECTS
8.1.1 Safety                                                                                                                B          -         -              -
8.1.2 First aid                                                                                                             A          -         -              -
8.1.3 Electrostatic Discharge (ESD)
                                                                                                                            B          -         -              -
control
8.1.4 Electromagnetic Effects (EMP /
                                                                                                                            B          -         -              -
EMI)
8.1.5 Metric Notation
8.1.5.1 Powers of ten                                                                                                       B          -         -              -
8.1.5.2 Electrical prefixes                                                                                                 B          -         -              -
8.1.6 Digital numbering systems                                                                                             A          -         -              -
8.1.7 Common tools                                                                                                          A          -         -              -
8.1.8 Technical publications                                                                                                A          -         -              -
8.1.9 Documentation                                                                                                         A          -         -              -
8.2 Test Equipment
8.2.1 Use digital Multimeter                                                                                               2b          -         -              -
8.2.2 Use oscilloscope                                                                                                     2b          -         -              -
8.2.3 Wave generators                                                                                                       A          -         -              -
8.3 Basic Electricity
8.3.1 Direct Current (DC)                                                                                                   B          -         -              -
8.3.2 Alternating Current (AC)                                                                                              B          -         -              -
8.3.3 Resistance theory                                                                                                     B           -        -              -
8.3.4 Measure resistance                                                                                                   2b          -         -              -
8.3.5 Capacitance theory                                                                                                    B          -         -              -
8.3.6 Inductance theory                                                                                                     B          -         -              -
8.4 Electromagnetic Devices
8.4.1 Transformers                                                                                                          B          -         -              -
8.4.2 Relays And Solenoids
8.4.2.1 Theory                                                                                                              B          -         -              -
8.4.2.2 Troubleshoot relays                                                                                                2b          -         -              -

                                                                114
                                                                                                                             Attachment 8
                      AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

8.4.3 Motor Theory
8.4.3.1 DC                                                                                                                  A          -         -              -
8.4.3.2 AC                                                                                                                  A          -         -              -
8.4.4 Generator Theory
8.4.4.1 DC                                                                                                                  A          -         -              -
8.4.4.2 AV                                                                                                                  A          -         -              -
8.4.5 Synchro/servo                                                                                                         B          -         -              -
8.4.6 Transducer                                                                                                            B          -         -              -
8.5 Solid State Devices
8.5.1 Theory                                                                                                                A          -         -              -
8.5.2 Diodes (LED, Zener, etc)                                                                                              A          -         -              -
8.5.3 Integrated Circuits (IC)                                                                                              A          -         -              -
8.5.4 Operational amplifiers                                                                                                A          -         -              -
8.6 Power Supply Circuits
8.6.1 Theory                                                                                                                B          -         -              -
8.7 Wave Generating Circuits
8.7.1 Theory                                                                                                                A          -         -              -
8.8 Digital Logic Circuits
8.8.1 Theory                                                                                                                A          -         -              -
8.8.2 Gates                                                                                                                 A          -         -              -
8.8.3 Flip flops                                                                                                            A          -         -              -
8.8.4 Digital to analog and analog to
                                                                                                                            A          -         -              -
digital converters
8.9 Basic Computer & Network
Fundamentals
8.9.1 Theory                                                                                                                A          -         -              -
8.9.2 Network components                                                                                                    A          -         -              -
8.9.3 Protocols                                                                                                             A          -         -              -
8.9.4 Topologies (architecture)                                                                                             A          -         -              -
8.10 Basic Communications
8.10.1 Radio frequency theory                                                                                               A          -         -              -
8.10.2 Frequency spectrum                                                                                                   A          -         -              -
                                                                115
                                                                                                                             Attachment 8
                      AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

8.10.3 Modulation (AM/FM)                                                                                                   A          -         -              -
8.10.4 Demodulation (AM/FM)                                                                                                 A          -         -              -
8.10.5 Receivers/transmitters TM:
                                                                                                                            A          -         -              -
AFI 38-101 / AFPD 38-1
8.10.6 Transmission mediums
                                                                                                                            A          -         -              -
theory
8.10.7 Waveguides                                                                                                           A          -         -              -
8.10.8 Data buses                                                                                                           A          -         -              -
8.10.9 Fiber optics                                                                                                         A          -         -              -
8.10.10 Coaxial cables                                                                                                      A          -         -              -
8.10.11 Antennas                                                                                                            A          -         -              -
8.11 Assemble Solder Type
Connections
8.11.1 Terminal connections                                                                                                1b          -         -              -
8.11.2 Mutipin connector                                                                                                   1b          -         -              -
8.11.3 Coaxial connector                                                                                                   1b          -         -              -
8.11.4 Desolder procedures                                                                                                 1b          -         -              -
8.12 Assemble Solderless Type
Connections
8.12.1 Coaxial connector                                                                                                   1b          -         -              -
8.12.2 Multipin connector                                                                                                  1b          -         -              -
8.12.3 Twin-axial connector (data
                                                                                                                           1b          -         -              -
bus)
8.12.4 Crimped connection
8.12.4.1 Terminal lugs                                                                                                     1b          -         -              -
8.12.4.2 Wire splice                                                                                                       1b          -         -              -
8.12.5 Shield terminations                                                                                                 1b          -         -              -
8.13 General Maintenance Practices
8.13.1 Assemble multipin connector
                                                                                                                           1b          -         -              -
harness
8.13.2 Secure cable harness                                                                                                1b          -         -              -
8.13.3 Use safety wire                                                                                                     1b          -         -              -
8.13.4 Troubleshooting Procedures
8.13.4.1 Isolate wire open                                                                                                 1b          -         -              -

                                                                116
                                                                                                                             Attachment 8
                      AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E         A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi      (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                 Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er       Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                Initials

8.13.4.2 Isolate wire short                                                                                                1b          -         -              -
8.13.4.3 Isolate voltage fault on
multipin connector harness AFI 21-                                                                                         1b          -         -              -
101
8.13.4.4 Isolate crossed connection
                                                                                                                           1b          -         -              -
on multipin connector harness




                                                                117
                                                                                                                             Attachment 8
                                              2AX7X CDC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                Provided
                                                                                                   A         B            C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                      3-Skill
                                                                                                           5-Skill Level      7-Skill Level
                                                                                                 Level

                                                                                                 Course        CDC         Course        CDC


Attachment 9 – AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require no
         certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X, 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman,
         CDCs.
9.1. MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
9.1.1. Aircraft and Equipment Readiness TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                    A
9.1.2. Maintenance Concept TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129                                                                                  A
9.1.3. Reliability and Maintainability (R&M) TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54                                                  A
9.1.4. Operating Instructions (OI) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360                                                                          A
9.1.5. Maintenance Information Systems (MIS) TR: AFCSM 21-556 Volume 2, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-
116, and TO 00-20-2                                                                                                                       B
9.1.6. Maintenance Metrics TR: AFI 21-103 and AFTTP 3-3                                                                                   A
9.1.7. Maintenance Repair Priorities TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                       A
9.1.8. Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1                                                            A
9.2. MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
9.2.1. Wing Commander (WG/CC) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101                                                                               A
9.2.2. Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101                                                                          A
9.2.3. Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101                                                                 A
9.2.4. Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD) TR: AFI 21-101                                                                         A
9.2.5. MXG Superintendent (SUPT) TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                           A
9.2.6. Squadron Commander (SQ/CC) TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                          A
9.2.7. Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO)/Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT) TR: AFI
21-101                                                                                                                                    A
9.2.8. Flight Commander/Flight Chief TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                       A
9.2.9. AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT) TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                       A
9.2.10. Section NCOIC/Chief TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                                B
9.2.11. Production Superintendent (Pro Super) TR: AFI 21-101                                                                              A
9.3. FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
9.3.1. Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF) TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                 A
9.3.2. Maintenance Training Flight (MTF) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232                                                                   A
9.3.3. Programs and Resources Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                       A

                                                             118
                                                                                                                Attachment 9
                                              2AX7X CDC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                           4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                           Provided
                                                                                              A         B            C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                3-Skill
                                                                                                     5-Skill Level      7-Skill Level
                                                                                           Level

                                                                                           Course        CDC         Course        CDC


9.4. FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (AMXS/HMXS)
9.4.1. Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU) TR: AFI 21-101                                                                               A
9.4.2. Flightline Expediter TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                          A
9.4.3. Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section TR: AFI 21-101                                                                       A
9.4.4. Aircraft Section TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                              A
9.4.5. Specialist Section TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                            A
9.4.6. Weapons Section TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                               A
9.4.7. Support Section TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                               A
9.5. FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
9.5.1. Accessories Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                            A
9.5.2. Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                       A
9.5.3. Armament Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                               A
9.5.4. Avionic Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                                A
9.5.5. Fabrication Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                            A
9.5.6. Maintenance Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                            A
9.5.7. Munitions Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                              A
9.5.8. Propulsion Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                             A
9.5.9. Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight TR: AFI 21-101                                                     A
9.6. MAINTENANCE TRAINING
9.6.1 Types of Training TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/                                                                                                       A
9.6.2. Training Documentation TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201 and AFI 36-2232                                                           A
9.6.3. Training Business Area (TBA) TR:
https://www.my.af.mil/imdsltpa/IMDSTWeb/ActionServlet                                                                               B
9.6.4. Special Certification Rosters TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                 A
9.6.5. Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP) TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFPD 10-9                                            A
9.6.6. Training Management TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AETCI 36-2601
9.6.6.1. Training Forecast                                                                                                          A
9.6.6.2. Training Request                                                                                                           A




                                                             119
                                                                                                          Attachment 9
