DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE           CFETP 2A5X3C
Headquarters US Air Force                Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-1030                  1 July 2005




                        AFSC 2A5X3C

            ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                 SYSTEMS




        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
          AND TRAINING PLAN
                      CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS
                                     AFSC 2A5X3C

                                          Table of Contents
PART I                                                                                 Page Number
Preface                                                                                          3

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                                                          4

      Section A, General Information
        Purpose of the CFETP                                                                           6
        Use of the CFETP                                                                               6
        Coordination and Approval                                                                      6

      Section B, Career Field Progression and Information
        Specialty Descriptions                                                                        7
        Skill & Career Progression                                                                    8
        Training Decisions                                                                            9
        Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs                                          9
        Career Field Path                                                                            11

      Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements
        Purpose                                                                                      13
        Specialty Qualification Requirements                                                         13

      Section D, Resource Constraints
        Purpose                                                                                      15
        Training Constraints                                                                         15

      Section E, Transitional Training Guide                                                         16

PART II
   Section A, Specialty Training Standard (STS)                                                      16

      Section B, Course Objectives List                                                             139

      Section C, Support Material                                                                   140

      Section D, Training Course Index                                                              141

      Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements                                                         142

Supersedes:   CFETP 2A5X3C, Oct 02                    Certified by: HQ USAF/ILMM (SMSgt Brian McNelly)
                                                                             Number of Printed Pages: 144
                                                                      OPR: 365 TRS/TRR (Betty L. Rivera)
                              ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS
                                AFSC 2A5X3C
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training. To
read, review, or print a copy of current CFETP, go to the Aircraft Maintenance Homepage at:
http://il-u.hq.af.mil/ilm/ilmm/acmaint
NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors will use both parts of the CFETP to plan,
manage, and control training within the career field.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and
facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements to support career field
restructures.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
and includes duties, tasks, and technical references to support training; Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) conducted training; wartime course requirements; core tasks; and
correspondence course requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors use to determine if airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C
identifies available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP)
developed to support proficiency training. These QTP packages are identified at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors use to determine
resources available to support training; included here are both mandatory and optional courses.
Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors use to determine
additional training requirements unique to the MAJCOM.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part
II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                  3
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provide individuals who are qualified in one or
more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list which describes a
particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications.
The tasks on AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Task. A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identify as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force Specialty regardless of duty position. Only a
percentage of critical tasks for each system are listed as mandatory core tasks. Core tasks
identified with an *R are optional for AFRC and ANG.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge
requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level in this
career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance
with AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing and Conducting Military Training Programs.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a training
detachment (TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course which results in award of a 3-skill level AFSC.




                                                 4
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

Mission Ready Airman (MRA). A formal course which results in an airman receiving hands-
on training and task certification of selected tasks so the individual will be immediately
productive upon arrival at their first duty section.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
airman in a specific duty position. This training occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training required to
do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialized Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite
of lesson plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct
training. These packages are prepared by AETC, approved by National Security Agency (NSA),
and administered by qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between the Air Education and Training Command and the
functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty
Code are taught in formal schools, career development courses, and exportable courses.

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and
CDCs required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty
Code (AFSC) Functional Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training
personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.




                                                 5
SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1.     Purpose: This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers,
supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training
program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A5X3C should receive to
develop and progress throughout their career. This CFETP identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific
training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty
for award of the 3-skill level. This training is conducted by AETC at Sheppard AFB, TX.
Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels. Qualification
training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific
duty position. This training program occurs both during and after upgrade training. It is designed
to provide the performance skills/knowledge to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty
training used for selected airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence
or exportable training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their
skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several
purposes; some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field’s training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.
1.2. Identifies tasks and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty and identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints, which impact full implementation of the desired
career field training process.

2. Uses: This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.
2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, Training
Detachment (TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the
users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide identified training.
2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident
training, contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM developed mandatory training, to
support this AFSC, must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other
available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval: The AFCFM is the approving authority. The using
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the


                                                 6
career field training requirements. The AETC training manager for AFSC 2A5X3C will initiate
an annual review of this document by AETC and MAJCOM AFSC functional managers to
ensure currency and accuracy. Using the list of courses in Part II, will eliminate duplicate
training.

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions:

4.1. Specialty Summary. Analyzes malfunctions, inspects, removes, maintains, and installs
integrated avionics systems. Performs and supervises avionics maintenance and general aircraft
servicing and handling. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 119800.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.
4.2.1. Electronic Warfare Systems Apprentice (2A533C). Performs maintenance on avionic
EW, intercept, and analysis equipment. Adjusts or replaces defective units or components.
Repairs avionic EW, intercept, and analysis equipment. Repairs intercept, panoramic, and radar
warning receivers; jamming transmitters; dispensers; signal analysis equipment; recorders;
direction finders; digital computer subsystems; and special purpose SE. Tests repaired
components for proper assembly using bench mockups and test equipment. Adjusts, aligns, and
calibrates equipment. Overhauls modules, including replacement of components using hand
tools, soldering equipment, and specialized electronic instruments. Modifies EW equipment, and
installs components according to technical publications. Posts entries on maintenance and
inspection records. Installs and removes internally and externally mounted nonmunitions avionic
EW, intercept, and analysis equipment. Checks equipment for serviceability. Assembles,
connects, and interwires equipment. Operates and maintains reprogramming and memory
loading devices. Verifies configuration of installed EW equipment and software. Operates,
tunes, and adjusts equipment.
4.2.2. Electronic Warfare Systems Journeyman (2A553C). Performs and supervises
maintenance on avionic EW, intercept, and analysis equipment. Isolates malfunctions by
inspections, voltage checks, resistance measurements, waveform observations, and other tests
using SE, built in test equipment, or computer aided diagnostics and manuals. Adjusts or
replaces defective units or components. Repairs avionic EW, intercept, and analysis equipment.
Repairs intercept, panoramic, and radar warning receivers; jamming transmitters; dispensers;
signal analysis equipment; recorders; direction finders; digital computer subsystems; and special
purpose SE. Tests repaired components for proper assembly using bench mockups and test
equipment. Adjusts, aligns, and calibrates equipment. Overhauls modules, including
replacement of components using hand tools, soldering equipment, and specialized electronic
instruments. Modifies EW equipment, and installs components according to technical
publications. Posts entries on maintenance and inspection records. Installs and removes
internally and externally mounted non-munitions avionic EW, intercept, and analysis equipment.
Checks equipment for serviceability. Assembles, connects, and inter-wires equipment. Operates
and maintains reprogramming and memory loading devices. Verifies configuration of installed
EW equipment and software. Operates, and tunes, and adjusts equipment.
4.2.3. Electronic Warfare Systems Craftsman (2A573C). Inspects and advises on
installation, repair, and overhaul of avionic EQ, intercept, and analysis equipment. Uses layout



                                               7
drawings, schematics, and pictorial diagrams to solve maintenance problems. Analyzes
equipment construction and operating characteristics to determine problems. Performs
alignment and calibration procedures. Determines repair procedure to correct defective
equipment. Interprets maintenance and installation policies and procedures. Identifies
maintenance problem areas, and recommends corrective action. Recommends methods for
improving maintenance efficiency. Interprets inspection findings, and determines corrective
action. Checks components to ensure compliance with technical publications. Evaluates
modifications. Evaluates accuracy of completed inspection and maintenance records.
4.2.4 Aerospace Maintenance Superintendent (2A590). Plans, organizes, and directs
maintenance activities. Establishes production controls and work standards. Analyzes report on
maintaining, installing, removing, and repairing aircraft systems to improve work methods and
repair techniques. Plans physical layout of facilities. Provides for spare parts, test equipment,
and other resources necessary for aircraft maintenance. Coordinates with supply, operations, and
other maintenance activities to improve procedures and resolve problems. Directs and controls
the inspection, adjustment, removal, replacement, and calibration of internal and external
mounted aircraft equipment. Directs repair of aircraft systems. Establishes and checks
inspection procedures. Determines extent and economy of repairs required. Inspects activities to
solve maintenance, supply and personnel problems. Analyzes inspection findings and
recommended corrective actions. Solves problems and interprets operational and technical
directives to ensure quality maintenance to accomplish mission requirements. Determines
funding requirements and develops budgets. Advises and briefs commanders and senior staff
members on all maintenance related activities. Ensures hazardous materials and waste are
handled, stored, and disposed of according to environmental standards.

5. Skill and Career Progression: Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to
accomplish its mission. It is essential for everyone involved in training do their part to plan,
develop, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part
of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives proper training at appropriate points in their
career.
5.1. Apprentice (3-level). Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a
trainer to enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the Career Development
Courses, Task Qualification Training, and available exportable courses for continued
advancement. Once task certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices
can be considered for appointment as unit trainers after completion of a formal trainer course.
5.2. Journeyman (5-level). Once upgraded to the 5-level, a journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base. Journeymen may be assigned job
positions such as consolidated tool kit and bench stock monitors. 5-levels should complete
available FTD courses, exportable courses, and MAJCOM specific training. Individuals will
attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) after having 48 months in the Air Force. A 5-level
will be considered for appointment as unit trainers after completion of a formal trainer course.
Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for promotion testing. They should also consider
continuing their education toward a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.
Timelines and requirements may vary for ANG and AFRC.
5.3. Craftsman (7-level). A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions such as shift leader, element chief, flight/section chief, and task certifier. They can also



                                                  8
be assigned to work in staff positions. Craftsmen should take courses to obtain added knowledge
in other avionic systems and in resource/personnel management. Continued academic education
through CCAF and higher degree programs is highly encouraged. In addition, when promoted to
TSgt, individuals will complete the Non-commissioned Officer Academy. MSgts and MSgt
selectees are eligible to enroll in the Senior NCO Correspondence Course.
5.4. Superintendent (9-level). A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight NCOIC,
production supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget,
manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing
education. Individuals promoted to SMSgt will complete the Senior Non-commissioned Officer
Academy. Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are
also recommended.

6. Training Decisions: The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Electronic Warfare Career Field.
The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training requirements.
The strategy must ensure we develop affordable training, eliminate duplication, and prevent a
fragmented approach to training. The following training decisions were made by MAJCOM
Functional Managers and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) at the career field Utilization and
Training Workshop held at Sheppard AFB, on 15-19 Nov 2004.
6.1. Initial Skills: To complete their Initial Skills Training, personnel will first satisfactorily
complete a mandatory resident course.
6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training. The CDC will be comprised of six volumes that include
information on general avionic subjects, maintenance principles, electronic warfare principles
and representative electronic warfare systems.
6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training. All MAJCOMs are required to attend formal training
courses on their existing MAJCOM Mandatory Course List (MMCL) for 7-level upgrade
training. Courses selected from the MMCL must focus on hands-on training and troubleshooting
techniques. Since MMCL courses are weapon system/avionic system specific, a group of
courses may be selected for an AFSC maintaining various aircraft/avionic systems. Personnel
must complete a minimum of one course from the group based upon aircraft/avionic system
assigned as of the date entered into 7-level upgrade training. The working group agreed to use
2AX7X Aircraft Maintenance CDCs as the career field’s 7-level CDCs.
6.4. Continuation Training. The purpose of the continuation-training program is to provide
additional training exceeding minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present
and future duty positions. MAJCOMs develop a continuation training program that ensures
individuals in the Electronic Warfare career field receive the necessary training at the appropriate
point in their career. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional training
requirements.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs: Enrollment in CCAF
occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an
Associate in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition, CCAF offers the following:
7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the Basic Instructor Course (BIC) and supervised practice teaching, CCAF
instructors who possess an Associates Degree or higher may be nominated by their school
commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.



                                                 9
7.2. Degree Requirements.
7.2.1. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
7.2.2. Program. Prior to completing an Associates Degree, the 5-level must be awarded and
the following requirements must be met:
                                                                     Semester Hours
Technical                                                                      24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                                    6
Physical Education                                                              4
General Education                                                              15
Program Elective                                                               15
     Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
     Studies; or General Education
Total                                                                          64

7.2.3. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours). A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core/Technical Elective subjects/courses.
7.2.4. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours). Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.
7.2.5. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours). This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.
7.2.6. General Education (15 Semester Hours). Applicable courses must meet the definition
of General Education Requirement (GER) subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General
Catalog.
7.2.7. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours). Satisfied with the applicable Technical
Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education
subjects/courses, including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six
semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this
program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of
Applied Science for this specialty.
7.3. AETC Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that
is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an Air Education and Training Command
Instructor should be actively pursuing an associate's degree. It is necessary for instructors to
have at least an Associate's Degree so the Technical School can maintain accreditation through
the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                               10
  8. Career Field Path
  8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A5X3C Air Force
  Specialty.

                                       Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                    Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                 Rank      Average    Earliest  High Year Of Tenure
                                                              Sew-On    Sew-On           (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)         Amn       6 months
                                                    A1C      16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)               SrA        3 years      28 months            12 Years
- Minimum 15 months on-the-job training.
- Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service     - Qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained.
  or be a SSgt Selectee.                           - Have attended the formal trainer’s course.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
   sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                SSgt      7.5 years      3 years             20 Years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
  mission design aircraft.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
- Advanced Technical School.
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training
                                                                               Certifier
                                                   - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and certified
                                                   to perform the task being certified
                                                   - Attend formal certifier.
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer.

Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)              TSgt     12.5 years      5 years             24 Years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only).                         MSgt       16 years        8 years            26 Years
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                    SMSgt     19.2 years      11 years            28 Years
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
- A percentage of top non-select (for promotion
   to E-8) MSgts attend the SNCOA each year.
- Resident or correspondence graduation is a
  prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on (Active Duty
  Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)          CMSgt     21.5 years      14 years            30 Years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
- Must be a resident graduate of SNCOA (Active
  Duty Only).




                                                     11
  8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist: Table 8.2 provides base and unit
  education and training managers a tool to track progress of individuals in the 2A5X3C Air Force
  Specialty.

Table A8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist
Requirements for Upgrade to:                                                                     Y   N
Journeyman
- Has the apprentice completed mandatory CDCs, if available?
- Has the apprentice completed all appropriate 5-level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has the apprentice completed all other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor?
- Has the apprentice completed 15 months training (9 months for retrainees) for award of the
  5-skill level?
- Has the apprentice met mandatory requirements listed in specialty description, AFMAN 36-2108
  (Airman Classification) and CFETP?
- Has the apprentice completed CAMS Course J6AZU00066-058? (Exception: AMC and AMC
  gained ANG/AFRC Personnel).
- Has the apprentice been recommended by their supervisor?
Craftsman
- Has the journeyman achieved the rank of SSgt?
- Has the journeyman completed mandatory CDCs, if available?
- Has the journeyman completed CAMS Course J6AZU00066-062? (Exception: AMC and AMC
  gained ANG/AFRC personnel).
- Has the journeyman completed all 7-level training requirements listed in the CFETP?
  -- Has the journeyman completed the mandatory 2AX7X CDCs?
- Has the journeyman completed a minimum 12 months UGT (6 months for retrainees)?




  TO: Squadron/CC

  FROM: Squadron Training Manager

  SUBJECT: Upgrade Trainee

  Trainee is prepared to be upgraded and has completed all mandatory training requirements.
  Supervisor recommends upgrade.



  ________________________                                      ________________________

        Training Manager                                                   Supervisor




                                                    12
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose: Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award,
and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are
identified in the STS in Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification:
10.1. Apprentice Level Training:
10.1.1. Specialty Qualification.
10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of radar and electronic principles theory,
including solid states devices, dual mode transmitting systems, and principles of logic and digital
techniques; application of electronic theory and operational settings to EW, intercept, and
analysis equipment, and special purpose support equipment (SE); concepts and application of
maintenance directives; and using and interpreting technical orders, computer programming
media or instructions, blueprints, wiring diagrams, schematics, and logic diagrams.
10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
physics and mathematics is desirable.
10.1.1.3. Training. Training to the three-skill level will require completion of the Electronic
Principles course conducted at Keesler AFB MS, and an initial skills course at Sheppard AFB,
TX. For award of AFSC 2A533C, completion of the basic Electronic Warfare Systems Course
(J3ABR2A533C048A) is mandatory.
10.1.1.4. Experience. There is no experience necessary for entry into AFSC 2A533C.
10.1.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:
10.1.1.5.1. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical
Examination and Standards, is mandatory.
10.1.1.5.2. For award and retention of AFSC 2A553C, eligibility for a Secret security clearance
is required as outlined in AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Management Program.
10.1.2. Sources. The initial skills courses will provide the required knowledge and
qualifications. Initial skills training encompasses basic system theory and operation, system
components, component removal and installation, systems operation, introduction to
maintenance concepts, general flight lines maintenance practices, use of technical publications,
maintenance documentation, and support equipment familiarization and use.
10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training, airmen are assigned to
Keesler AFB MS for completion of Course E3AQR2A533C 371, Electronic Principles. Airmen
will then go to Sheppard AFB TX to attend course J3ABR2A533C048A, Electronic Warfare
Systems Apprentice. Completion of both courses will result in award of the 3-skill level.
10.2. Journeyman Level Training (5-Level):
10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A533C. Also,
experience in functions such as testing, adjusting, aligning, tuning, calibrating, or maintaining
EW equipment or using special purpose test equipment.
10.2.1.1. Knowledge. The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge training required.
Qualification Training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core tasks
identified in the STS/JQS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee’s current knowledge
base, and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.



                                                13
10.2.1.2. Education. No other education requirements are required. All additional education
will be in the form of OJT and completion of CDCs.
10.2.1.3. Training. For award of the 5-skill level, completion of all applicable core tasks and 5-
level CDCs.
10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A533C is mandatory for the
award of the AFSC 2A553C.
10.2.1.5. Other. Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI-31-501 is
mandatory for award and retention of AFSC 2A553C.
10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. One source of training is the assigned base OJT
training section. The other source of training is AETC, Sheppard AFB TX which is the Subject
Matter Expert for the 5-level CDCs. The resource is the 5-level CDCs which are developed by
AETC, Sheppard AFB, TX.
10.2.3. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed by the units, utilizing the
STS/JQS, exportable courses, and CDCs. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the
2A553C Electronic Warfare Systems Journeyman CDCs, completion of all Air Force core tasks,
and the supervisor’s recommendation. Emphasis must be placed on EW core tasks prior to any
Cross Utilization Training (CUT) in other aircraft related tasks.
10.3. Craftsman Level Training (7-Level):
10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A553C. Also,
experience performing or supervising functions such as installing, repairing, maintaining, or
modifying EW, intercept, analysis, and related equipment, or using and interpreting associated
test equipment.
10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Seven-level upgrade training will be conducted by certified trainers using
Air Force core tasks, unit/MAJCOM specific courses using MAJCOM Mandatory Course List
(MMCL), and 2AX7X 7-level CDCs. Exportable courses will be developed and provided to
field units to standardize OJT, enhance the training effort, and minimize the impact on
productive man-hours.
10.3.1.2. Education. Airman Leadership Course in residence. All additional education will be
in the form of OJT and completion of CDCs.
10.3.1.3. Training. For award of the 7-skill level, graduate of ALS, completion of all core
tasks, unit/MAJCOM specific courses using MAJCOM Mandatory Course List (MMCL), and
2AX7X 7-level CDCs are required.
10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A553C is mandatory for the
award of the AFSC 2A573C.
10.3.1.5. Other. Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501 is
mandatory for award and retention of AFSC 2A573C.
10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. The source of training is the assigned base OJT
training section. The other source of training is AETC, Sheppard AFB, TX which is the Subject
Matter Expert for the 7-level CDCs. The resource is the 7-level CDCs which are developed by
AETC, Sheppard AFB, TX.
10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of the 2AX7X 7-level
CDCs, all AF core tasks, and completion of unit/MAJCOM specific courses using MAJCOM
Mandatory Course List (MMCL), 12 months OJT as a SSgt, and the supervisor’s
recommendation.




                                                14
10.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level):
10.4.1. Specialty Qualification. Manages installing, repairing, maintaining, replacing, and
modifying EW and offensive systems, test equipment, and special purpose support equipment.
Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 102.
10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of theory and application of electronic
principles, radios, transistors, solid-state components, and servo-amplifiers; working principles
of optical lenses; radar search and target identifying factors; interpreting and applying
mechanical drawings and wiring diagrams to mechanical functions and electronic circuits;
malfunction analysis; using, caring for, and interpreting testing and measuring devices; concepts
and application of maintenance directives; Air Force supply, administrative, and safety
precautions.
10.4.1.2. Education. NCO Academy in residence (ANG/AFRC correspondence). All
additional education will be in the form of OJT.
10.4.1.3. Training. The Senior NCO Academy and unit OJT will be used for 9-level training.
10.4.1.4. Experience. For award of the AFSC 2A590, qualification in and possession in one of
the AFSCs 2A573 is mandatory. Also, experience is mandatory directing functions such as
repairing, maintaining, replacing, overhauling, or modifying EW or weapon delivery systems.
10.4.1.5. Other. Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501 is
mandatory for award and retention of AFSC 2A590.
10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. The source of training is the assigned base OJT
training section.
10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded upon promotion to SMSgt. Individuals
will attend the Senior NCO Academy after they are selected for promotion to SMSgt. Guard and
Reserve personnel may use the correspondence course.

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

11. Purpose: This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints which preclude
optimum/desired training from being developed or conducted. Included is a narrative explanation
of each resource constraint, an impact statement describing the effect on training, the resources
needed, and actions required to satisfy the training requirements.

12. Apprentice Level Training:
12.1. Constraint: Technical school does not have C-130 aircraft with appropriate support
equipment to perform equipment checkouts and training.
12.1.1. Impact: A number of STS task items cannot be taught due to the lack of operational
systems on Sheppard AFB aircraft.
12.1.2. Resources Required: None
12.1.3. Action Required: N/A
12.2. OPR/Target Completion Date. N/A

13. Five Level Training:
13.1 Constraints. CDCs will be rewritten with new and updated material.
13.1.1. Impact. All objectives would not be met.
13.1.2. Resources Required. N/A
13.1.3. Action Required. CDC writers revise/rewrite appropriate sections/books.



                                               15
13.2. OPR/Target Completion Date: 365 TRS/TTC (MSgt Ward)/1 Aug 05.
14. Seven-Level Training:
14.1. Constraints. N/A.

Section E. - Transitional Training Guide. N/A.

PART II

SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) for classes beginning October 2005.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:
2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical References) the most common
tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-,
5-, and 7-skill level. An asterisk (*) before the number indicates a Wartime Course Objective.
Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies, by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements. Core
tasks identified with an */R are optional for the AFRC and the ANG. Certification on all
shop/flightline core tasks applicable to at least one Mission Design Series (MDS) aircraft
assigned must be completed for skill level upgrade. Only core tasks which are applicable to base
assigned aircraft or equipment are required for upgrade (units are not exempt if
aircraft/equipment is assigned to another unit on base).
2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completed
date.
2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See
CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listings.
2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.
2.5. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to
AFI 36-2201. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:
2.5.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training. Use of attachments one,
two, twelve, and thirteen is mandatory in individual training records; use of airframe specific
attachments will be determined by duty position. Identify duty position requirements by circling
the subparagraph number next to the task statement. As a minimum, complete the following
columns in Part 2 of the CFETP: Tng Complete, Trainee Initials, Trainer Initials, and Certifier
Initials (if applicable). An AFJQS may be used in lieu of Part II of the CFETP only upon
approval of the AFCFM.
2.6.1. Converting from Old Document to CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are
replaced by this CFETP; therefore, conversion of all training records to this CFETP STS is



                                               16
mandatory. Automated records, utilizing Core Automated Management System (CAMS) or
Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS), reflecting this STS may be used and are highly
encouraged. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications. For those tasks previously certified and required in the current duty position,
evaluate current qualifications and, when verified, recertify using current date as completion date
and enter certifier’s initials. The trainee will initial in the trainee’s block. Remember, during the
transcription process no training is taking place. Therefore, the trainer's initials are not required.
For previous certification on tasks not required in the current duty position, carry forward only
the previous completion date. If and when these tasks become a duty position requirement,
recertify with current date, certifier’s initials, and trainee’s initials. Use this CFETP STS (or
automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current qualifications.
2.6.1.1. For non-core and non-critical tasks previously certified and required in the current duty
position, evaluate current qualifications and when verified, re-certify using current date as
completion date, and enter trainee's and trainer's initials.
2.6.1.2. When transcribing previous certification for tasks not required in the current duty
position, carry forward only the previous completion date of certification (not the initials of
another person). If and when transcribed tasks become duty position requirements, re-certify
using standard certification procedures.
2.6.1.3. The person whose initials appear in the trainer or certifier block during the transcription
process must meet the requirements of their respective roles.
2.6.1.4. Upon completion of the transcription process, give the old CFETP to the member.
2.6.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the supervisor
identifies CFETP Part II training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and
ensures, as a minimum, that trainees cover the mandatory items in AFI 36-2108. For two-time
CDC course exam failures, the supervisor identifies all Part II items corresponding to the areas
covered by the CDC. The trainee completes a study of STS references, undergoes evaluation by
the task certifier, and receives certification on the CFETP Part II. Supervisors must document
successful completion of career knowledge prior to submission of a CDC waiver.
2.6.3. Decertification and Recertification. When an airman is found to be unqualified on a
task previously certified for his or her position, the supervisor lines through the previous
certification or deletes previous certification when using automated system. Appropriate
remarks are entered on the AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet,
as to the reason for decertification. The individual is recertified (if required) either by erasing
the old entries and writing in the new or by using correction fluid/tape (if the entries were made
in ink) over the previously certified entry.
2.6.4. AF Form 797. When additional items not listed in the CFETP, Part II, are necessary in
the current duty assignment, enter them on the AF Form 797. Fill out the form IAW AFMAN
36-2247.
2.6.5. Disposition of Training Records. Upon separation, retirement, commissioning, or
promotion to Master Sergeant (unless otherwise directed by the AFCFM, MAJCOM, unit
commander, or supervisor), give the individual their training records. Also, give individuals
outdated training records after transcribing records. Do not remove any training records that
show past qualifications unless transcribed to a new CFETP/AFJQS. For example, an individual
working in a tool crib must maintain documented career field qualifications in case they return to
duty on the flightline or in the shop. Supervisors must exercise good judgment when removing
training records not needed in current duty positions.



                                                  17
2.7. Specialty Training Standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. Go
means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meet local demands for
accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures. The STS is a guide for development of
promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge
Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron by senior NCOs
with extensive practical experience in their career field. The tests sample knowledge of STS
subject matter areas judged by test development team member as most appropriate for promotion
to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog.
Individual responsibilities are in chapter 14 of AFI 36-2606, US Air Force Reenlistment,
Retention, and NCO Status Programs. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air
Force Reserve.

3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to the
AETC training manager at 365 TRS/TRR, 609 9th Avenue Stop 242, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-
2335, DSN 736-7899. Reference specific STS paragraphs. For a quick response to problems,
call our customer service information line (CISL), DSN 736-2574.



BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                                   DONALD WETEKAM, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           DCS/Installations and Logistics




13 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key (Mandatory to file with CFETP Section I and Section II, Part A)
2. Training Requirements, Common Task (Mandatory)
3. Training Requirements, B-1 (Mandatory for B-1 personnel)
4. Training Requirements, B-2 (Mandatory for B-2 personnel)
5. Training Requirements, B-52H (Mandatory for B-52 personnel)
6. Training Requirements, C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N//P/C-141
    (Mandatory for C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/C-141 personnel)
7. Training Requirements, HH-60G/MH-60G (Mandatory for H-60 personnel)
8. Training Requirements, E-3 (Mandatory for E-3 personnel)
9. Training Requirements, EC-130H (Mandatory for EC-130H personnel)
10. Training Requirements, RC-135 (Mandatory for RC-135 personnel)
11. Training Requirements, AFSOC (Mandatory for AFSOC personnel)
12. Training Requirements, Electronic Fundamentals (Mandatory)
13. Training Requirements, 2AX7X CDCs (Mandatory)
Note: One of attachments 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 must be filed.




                                             18
                                                      PROFICIENCY CODE KEY


                                       THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
                                                                    NAME OF TRAINEE
PRINTED NAME (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                      INITIALS (Written)                  SSAN

                                      PRINTED NAME OF TRAINING/CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS
N/I                                                                  N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I



                                                     QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                            PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                                       SCALE       DEFINITION: The individual
                                       VALUE
                                          1        IS EXTREMELY LIMITED. (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do
                                                   most of the task.)
           TASK                           2        IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT. (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. )
       PERFORMANCE                        3        IS COMPETENT. (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
          LEVELS                          4        IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT. (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                                                   others how to do the task.)
                                          a        KNOWS NOMENCLATURE. (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.)
          *TASK                           b         KNOWS PROCEDURES. (Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.)
        KNOWLEDGE                         c         KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES. (Can identify why and when the task must be done and why
                                                   each step is needed.)
            LEVELS                        d         KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY. (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                                          A         KNOWS FACTS. (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
          **SUBJECT                       B         KNOWS PRINCIPLES. (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about
                                                   the subject.)
        KNOWLEDGE                         C         KNOWS ANALYSIS. (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)
          LEVELS                          D         KNOWS EVALUATION. (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.)
                                                                      EXPLANATIONS

    A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Example:
b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject
common to several
   tasks.

-     This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

/ This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources (2b/-) or given at a lower level due
to limitations in
     resources (3c/b, 2b/b, etc.).




                                                                           19                                                              Attachment 1
                                         COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 2
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
2.1 CAREER LADDER
     PROGRESSION
2.1.1 Progression in career ladder                                                                                           -       -       -       -
       2A5X3C
       TR: AFI 36-2108, AFVA 39-1
2.1.2 Duties of 3-, 5-, and 7-level                                                                                          -       -       -       -
       personnel
2.1.3 Concepts/Philosophy of                                                                                                 A       -       -       -
       Electronic Warfare
2.2 SECURITY

2.2.1   Information Security
        TR: AFI 31-401, 31-501, and
        AFPD 31-4, 31-5
2.2.1.1   Mark classified information                                                                                        a       -       -      B

2.2.1.2   Prevention of security                                                                                             -       -       -       -
          violations
2.2.1.3   Access to classified                                                                                               -       -       -      B
          information
2.2.1.4   Use security classification                                                                                        a       B       -       -
          guide
2.2.2 Physical Security
        TR: DOD 5200.1R
2.2.2.1   Control of restricted areas                                                                                        -       -       -       -

2.2.2.2     Security alert reporting                                                                                         -       -       -       -

2.2.2.3   Make entries on cabinet,                                                                                           a       -       -       -
          safes, and room security
          forms
2.2.2.4   Proper handling of classified                                                                                      a       B       -       -
          materials
2.2.3 Communications Security
        (COMSEC)
        TR: AFI 33-211
2.2.3.1   COMSEC Education Program                                                                                           -       -       -       -

2.2.3.2     Specific 2A5X3C                                                                                                  A       -       -       -
            vulnerabilities
2.2.4     Operations Security (OPSEC)
          TR: AFI 10-1101, AFPD 10-11

                                                                      20                                                              Attachment 2
                                      COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.2.4.1     Goals of OPSEC program                                                                                          -       -       -       -

2.2.4.2    Specific 2A5X3C                                                                                                  A       -       -       -
           vulnerabilities
2.2.4.3    Use CILs (critical information                                                                                   -       -       -       -
           lists)
2.2.5 Computer security
       (COMPUSEC)
        TR: AFI 33-202
2.3 AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
      AND HEALTH (AFOSH)
      PROGRAM
      TR: AFI 91-400 SERIES and
      TOs 312-10-4, 33-1-32
2.3.1 AFOSH standards for AFSC                                                                                              -       B       -       -
         2A5X3C
2.3.2 Maintain safe work area                                                                                               -       -       -       -

2.3.3   Hazards/Safety Practices of
        AFSC 2A5X3C
2.3.3.1   RF energy                                                                                                         B       B       -       -

2.3.3.2     Noise                                                                                                           B       B       -       -

2.3.3.3     Compressed gases                                                                                                B       B       -       -

2.3.3.4     Electrical power                                                                                                B       B       -       -

2.3.3.5     Hydraulic power                                                                                                 B       B       -       -

2.3.3.6     Hazardous liquids                                                                                               B       B       -       -

2.3.3.7     Radioactive parts and                                                                                           -       -       -       -
            materials
2.3.3.8     Aircraft                                                                                                        B       B       -       -

2.3.3.9     Aerospace ground equipment                                                                                      -       -       -       -
            (AGE)
2.3.3.10    Electrical equipment                                                                                            -       -       -       -

2.3.3.11    STV Beryllium mirrors                                                                                           -       -       -       -

2.3.3.12    Lasers                                                                                                          B       -       -       -

2.3.4     Practice FOD/DOP prevention                                                                                       -       B       -       -
          TR: AFI 21-101
2.3.5     AF Nuclear Surety Program                                                                                         -       -       -       -
          TR: AFPD 91-1, AFI 91-104


                                                                     21                                                              Attachment 2
                                       COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.4 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
     AND WASTE HANDLING
     ACCORDING TO
     ENVIRONMENTAL
     STANDARDS
     TR: AFI 23-504, EPA State
     Regulations
2.4.1 Types of hazardous                                                                                                 B       -       -       -
       material/fluids
2.4.2 Handling procedures                                                                                                B       -       -       -

2.4.3     Storage and labeling                                                                                           B       -       -       -

2.4.4     Proper disposal                                                                                                B       -       -       -

2.4.5     Material Safety Data Sheet                                                                                     B       -       -       -

2.4.6  Report Hazardous Material                                                                                         -       -       -       -
       Spills
2.5 MAINTENANCE
     MANAGEMENT
     TR: AFI 21-101 and MAJCOM
     Directives
2.5.1 Purpose and function of the                                                                                        -       B       -       -
       Maintenance Organization
2.5.2 Maintenance Accountability                                                                                         -       -       -       -

2.5.3     Operational Risk Management                                                                                    -       -       -       -

2.5.4     Management Maintenance

2.5.4.1     Maintenance Group                                                                                            B       -       -       -
            Commander Responsibilities
2.5.4.2     Logistics Management                                                                                         -       -       -       -

2.5.4.3     Resource Management                                                                                          -       -       -       -

2.5.4.4     Technical Order Management                                                                                   -       -       -       -

2.5.4.5     Product Improvement                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Working Group, Test
            Planning Working Group,
            System Training Plan,
            and Product Improvement
            Review
2.5.4.6     Financial Plan                                                                                               -       -       -       -

2.5.4.7     Aircraft/Support Equipment                                                                                   -       -       -       -
            Status Monitoring

                                                                  22                                                              Attachment 2
                                      COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.5.4.8     Maintenance QPM                                                                                                -       -       -       -
            Relationships
2.5.4.9     FOD Program Manager                                                                                            -       -       -       -

2.5.4.10    Mobility                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

2.5.4.11    Maintenance Incident                                                                                           -       -       -       -
            Investigation and Prevention
2.5.4.12    Warranty Programs                                                                                              -       B       -       -

2.5.4.13    Modification Proposal                                                                                          -       -       -       -

2.5.4.14    SMR Change Request                                                                                             -       B       -       -

2.5.4.15    Status Reports                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

2.5.4.16    Configuration Management                                                                                       -       -       -       -

2.5.4.17 Status of Resources and                                                                                           -       -       -       -
         Training (SORTS)
2.5.5 Coordinate Precision                                                                                                         -       -       -
       Measurement Equipment
       Laboratory Support
2.6 MAINTENANCE AND
     INSPECTION SYSTEMS,
     FORMS
     TR: AFI 21-101
2.6.1 Purpose of the Integrated                                                                                            A       -       -       -
       Maintenance Data
       Collection System
2.6.2 Aircraft inspection systems                                                                                          B       B       -       -

2.6.3   Use Job Data Documentation                                                                                        2b       -       -       -
        Forms
2.6.4 Integrated Maintenance Data
        Systems
        TR: AFMAN 66-279 Vols I-
        XXVII, TO 00-20-1, and TO 00-
        20-2
2.6.4.1   Integrated Maintenance                                                                                           B       B       -       -
          Data Systems
2.6.4.2   Other Automated                                                                                                  -       A       -       -
          Maintenance
          Systems
2.6.5 Use Integrated Maintenance
        Systems (CAMS, G081, etc.)
2.6.5.1   Create discrepancy                  *                                                                           2b       -       -       -



                                                                    23                                                              Attachment 2
                                      COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.6.5.2     Schedule discrepancy            *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.6.5.3     Defer discrepancy               *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.6.5.4     Transfer discrepancy            *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.6.5.5     Sign off discrepancy

2.6.5.5.1     Cannibalization               *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.6.5.5.2     Action taken code "P"         *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.6.5.5.3     Action taken code "Q"         *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.6.5.5.4     Action taken code "R"         *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.6.5.5.5     Special Inspections                                                                                       2b       -       -       -

2.6.5.5.6     Maintenance transactions                                                                                   -       -       -       -

2.6.5.5.7     Supply transactions                                                                                        -       -       -       -

2.6.5.5.8     Order aircraft parts                                                                                       -       -       -       -

2.6.5.5.9  Maintenance/Supervision                                                                                       -       -       -       -
           Transactions
2.6.5.5.10 Complete J6ANU00066-                                                                                          -       -       -       -
043,       CAMS for Flightline &
           Backshop
2.6.6 Deficiency Reporting System

2.6.6.1     Concept of                                                                                                   -       B       -       -

2.6.6.2     Use of                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

2.6.6.3  Software                                                                                                        -       -       -       -
         improvement/deficiency
         report
2.6.6.4  Material/Quality Deficiency                                                                                     -       B       -       -
         report
2.6.7 Use aircraft /equipment
        maintenance forms
2.6.7.1  AFTO FORM 781A                     *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.6.7.2     AFTO FORM 781B                                                                                               -       -       -       -

2.6.7.3     AFTO FORM 781C                                                                                              2b       -       -       -



                                                                  24                                                              Attachment 2
                                      COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.6.7.4     AFTO FORM 781K                   *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.6.7.5     AFTO FORM 781H                   *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.6.7.6     AFTO FORM 244/245                *                                                                            -       -       -       -

2.6.7.7     Use AF Form 1492                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

2.6.7.8     Use AFTO 349                                                                                                 2b       -       -       -

2.6.8     Historical Records                                                                                              -       -       -       -

2.7 SUPERVISION
     TR: AFI 36-2108, 36-2201,
     AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103
2.7.1 Orient new personnel                                                                                                -       -       -       -

2.7.2     Assign personnel to work                                                                                        -       -       -       -
          assignments
2.7.3     Plan work assignments and                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          priorities
2.7.4     Schedule work assignments and                                                                                   -       -       -       -
          priorities
2.7.5     Coordinate work assignments                                                                                     -       -       -       -

2.7.6     Establish                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

2.7.6.1     Work methods                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

2.7.6.2     Controls                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

2.7.6.3     Performance Standards                                                                                         -       -       -       -

2.7.7  Evaluate work performance of                                                                                       -       -       -       -
       subordinate personnel
2.7.8 Help resolve technical problems                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       for subordinate
2.7.9 Initiate actions to correct                                                                                         -       -       -       -
       substandard performance
       TR: AFIs 36-2503, -2907, -
       3202, -3208
2.7.10 Counsel personnel and help                                                                                         -       -       -       -
       resolve individual problems
       TR: AFP 36-2618
2.7.11 Supervise
       TR: AFI 21-101




                                                                   25                                                              Attachment 2
                                      COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.7.11.1    Maintenance actions                                                                                           -       -       -       -
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103
2.7.11.2    Inspection actions                                                                                            -       -       -       -

2.7.12 Use/Interpret

2.7.12.1    Maintenance reports                                                                                           -       -       -       -

2.7.12.2    Inspection reports                                                                                            -       -       -       -

2.7.13 Review Maintenance                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
        Documentation
2.7.14 Prepare
        TR: AFI 21-101
2.7.14.1 Maintenance inspection                                                                                           -       -       -       -
          reports and charts
2.7.14.2 Organization and functional                                                                                      -       -       -       -
          charts
2.7.15 Justify                                                                                                            -       -       -       -
        TR: AFI 21-101
2.7.15.1 Personnel manning                                                                                                -       -       -       -
          requirements
2.7.15.2 Equipment Authorizations                                                                                         -       -       -       -

2.7.16 Recommend policy changes on
        use of
        TR: AFI 21-101
2.7.16.1 Personnel                                                                                                        -       -       -       -

2.7.16.2    Equipment                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

2.7.17 Statement of charges                                                                                               -       -       -       -
        TR: AFM 23-110 V-2
2.7.18 Perform reports of survey                                                                                          -       -       -       -
        TR: AFM 23-110 V-2
2.7.19 Aircraft Scheduling
        TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103
2.7.19.1 Utilize flow charts                                                                                              -       -       -       -

2.7.19.2    Flying/maintenance planning                                                                                   -       -       -       -

2.7.20 Maintenance mobility planning                                                                                      -       -       -       -

2.8 TRAINING
     TR: AFI 36-2201
2.8.1 Evaluate personnel for need of                                                                                      -       -       -       -
       training



                                                                   26                                                              Attachment 2
                                         COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                             2A533C
                                              2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
                                                 A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                            3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                               Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                             Level Level         Level
                                                 5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                             CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                                Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.8.2   Plan and supervise
        OJT/Enlisted training
2.8.2.1   Prepare JQSs (AF Form 797)                                                                                          -       -       -       -

2.8.2.2     Conduct Training                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

2.8.2.3   Counsel trainees on their                                                                                           -       -       -       -
          progress
2.8.2.4   Monitor effectiveness of
          training
2.8.2.4.1    Career knowledge upgrade                                                                                         -       -       -       -

2.8.2.4.2      Job proficiency upgrade                                                                                        -       -       -       -

2.8.2.4.3      Qualification Training                                                                                         -       -       -       -

2.8.2.5     Maintain training records            *                                                                            -       -       -       -

2.8.2.6     Develop training programs                                                                                         -       -       -       -

2.8.2.7     Evaluate effectiveness of                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            training programs
2.8.3     OJT trainer requirements

2.8.3.1     Prepare teaching outlines of                                                                                      -       -       -       -
            task breakdowns
2.8.3.2     Provide trainees theory and                                                                                       -       -       -       -
            train on actual equipment
2.8.3.3     Provide feedback on training                                                                                      -       -       -       -
            provided
2.8.4     OJT task certifier
          requirements
2.8.4.1     Develop methods of                                                                                                -       -       -       -
            evaluation to determine
            trainee
            knowledge/qualification and
            training effectiveness
2.8.4.2     Use appropriate method of                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            evaluation and effectively
            determine trainee's ability
2.8.4.3     Provide supervisor and trainee                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            feedback on results of training
            provided, and trainee's
            strengths and weaknesses
2.8.5     Specialty Training Status (STS)                                                                                     -       -       -       -

2.8.6     Occupational Survey Report                                                                                          -       -       -       -
          (OSR)


                                                                       27                                                              Attachment 2
                                          COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.8.7  Utilization and Training                                                                                             -       -       -       -
       Workshop (U&TW)
2.8.8 Career Field Education and                                                                                            -       -       -       -
       Training Program (CFETP)
2.9 TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
     TR: TOs 0-1-01, 00-5-1, 00-5-2,
     00-5-17, 00-5-18, 80-00-1
2.9.1 Scope and application of the                                                                                          A       -       -       -
       technical order system
2.9.2 Use technical order indexes                                                                                           -       -       -       -

2.9.3    Use technical orders                  *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.9.4    Scope and application of                                                                                           A       -       -       -
         technical order
         improvement/deficiency
         report
2.9.5    Initiate technical order                                                                                           -       B       -       -
         improvement/deficiency report
2.9.6    Scope and application of the                                                                                       A       B       -       -
         Computer Program Identification
         Number (CPIN) system
2.9.7    Use CPIN compendium                                                                                                -       -       -       -

2.9.8    Time Compliance Technical                                                                                          -       -       -       -
         Orders
2.9.9    Maintain technical order files                                                                                     -       -       -       -

2.10 SUPPLY DISCIPLINE
     TR: AFMAN 23-110
2.10.1 Property accountability and                                                                                          A       B       -       -
       responsibility
2.10.2 Equipment authorization and                                                                                          -       -       -       -
       management
2.10.3 Special requisitions                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

2.10.4 Verify Back order                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

2.10.5 Use equipment condition tags            *                                                                           2b       A       -       -

2.10.6 Use microfiche/computer based                                                                                        -       -       -       -
       programs
2.10.7 Use issue/turn-in requests                                                                                          2b       -       -       -

2.10.8 Maintenance Supply Concept                                                                                           -       -       -      B

2.10.9 Supply Documents Management                                                                                          -       -       -       -



                                                                     28                                                              Attachment 2
                                      COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.10.10 Equipment Account                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
        Management
2.10.11 Priority System                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

2.10.12 Repair Cycle                                                                                                      A       A       -       -

2.10.13 Classified Asset Handling                                                                                         -       A       -       -

2.10.14 Land Mobile Radios, Pagers, and                                                                                   -       -       -       -
        Cell Phones
2.10.15 Depot Level Repairables                                                                                           A       B       -       -

2.10.16 Use supply products

2.10.16.1 DO4                                                                                                             -       -       -       -

2.10.16.2 D18                                                                                                             -       -       -       -

2.10.16.3 M30                                                                                                             -       -       -       -

2.10.16.4 D23                                                                                                             -       -       -       -

2.11 ELECTRONIC WARFARE
     PRINCIPLES
     TR: AFDD 2-5.1
2.11.1 Electronic Warfare Combat                                                                                          B       B       -       -
       Principles
2.11.2 Electromagnetic radiation                                                                                          B       B       -       -
       (directed energy)
2.11.3 EW Categories                                                                                                      B       B       -       -

2.11.4 Air Defense Systems                                                                                                B       B       -       -

2.11.5 Infrared Principles                                                                                                B       B       -       -

2.12 FUNDAMENTALS OF
     AVIONIC SYSTEMS
     MAINTENANCE-ON
     EQUIPMENT
     TR: Applicable aircraft -1 and -2
     series TOs 00-25-234, 1-1A-14,
     33-1-32
2.12.1 Perform nuclear hardness                                                                                          2b       -       -       -
        maintenance and Inspections
        TR: Applicable system JG-00-1,
        1-1A-14
2.12.2 Use aircraft hardware                                                                                              -       -       -       -
        TR: AFI 91-408, Applicable
        aircraft TOs

                                                                   29                                                              Attachment 2
                                          COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.12.3 Consolidated Tool Kits
        TR: AFI 21-101
2.12.3.1 Inventory                             *                                                                           2b       B       -       -

2.12.3.2    Maintain                                                                                                        -       -       -       -

2.12.3.3    File lost tool report              *                                                                            -       B       -       -

2.12.4 Use common tools                                                                                                    3b       -       -       -
       TR: AFI 91-408, TOs 00-25-
       234, 32-1-1, 32-1-2, 32-1-101,
       32-1-2011-1-691
2.12.5 Use torque indicating devices                                                                                       3c       -       -       -

2.12.6 Use special purpose tools                                                                                            -       -       -       -

2.12.7 Protect electrostatic devices                                                                                        B       B       -       -

2.12.8 Identify corrosion                                                                                                   a       -       -       -

2.12.9 Perform safety wiring                                                                                               2b       -       -       -

2.12.10 Use safetying devices                                                                                               -       -       -       -

2.13 GENERAL
     ORGANIZATIONAL
     MAINTENANCE
     TR: Applicable aircraft -1 and -2
     series TOs
2.13.1 Ensure aircraft safe for                                                                                            2b       -       -       -
        maintenance
2.13.2 Aircraft familiarization

2.13.2.1    Major structural areas                                                                                          A       B       -       -

2.13.2.2    Major systems                                                                                                   A       A       -       -

2.13.2.3    Danger areas                                                                                                    A       B       -       -

2.13.2.4    Apply external air                                                                                              -       -       -       -
            conditioning
2.13.2.5    Apply external power                                                                                           2b       -       -       -

2.13.2.6    Central Aircraft Support                                                                                        -       -       -       -
            System (CASS)
2.13.2.7    Perform selected classified                                                                                     -       -       -       -
            data erase



                                                                     30                                                              Attachment 2
                                      COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.13.2.8    Apply hydraulic power                                                                                          -       -       -       -

2.13.3 Perform proximity switch                                                                                                    -       -       -
       control covering/uncovering
2.13.4 Practice safe entry procedures on                                                                                   -       -       -       -
       aircraft with open fuel cells
2.13.5 Remove and install Radar                                                                                            -       -       -       -
       Absorption Material (RAM)
2.13.6 Operate Motorized Maintenance                                                                                       -       -       -       -
       Stand

2.13.7 Operate crane                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

2.13.8 Launch/Recover aircraft                                                                                             -       -       -       -

2.13.9 Tow aircraft                                                                                                        -       -       -       -

2.13.9.1    Wing/Tail walker                                                                                               -       -       -       -

2.13.9.2    Brake operator                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

2.13.9.3    Tow supervisor                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

2.13.9.4    Tow vehicle operator                                                                                           -       -       -       -

2.13.10 Perform aircraft inspection

2.13.10.1 Phase                                                                                                            -       A       -       -

2.13.10.2 Isochronal                                                                                                       -       A       -       -

2.13.10.3 Special (excluding AN/USM-                                                                                       -       A       -       -
          464 and AN/ALM-288
          checks)
2.13.11 Perform aircraft wash                                                                                              -       -       -       -

2.13.12 Perform aircraft de-icing                                                                                          -       -       -       -

2.13.13 Brief/Debrief Aircrews                                                                                             -       -       -       -

2.13.14 Use non-powered AGE                                                                                                -       -       -       -

2.14 MULTIPLEX BUS

2.14.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B       B       -       -

2.15 USE TEST EQUIPMENT
     TR: Applicable TOs


                                                                    31                                                              Attachment 2
                                      COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.15.1 Radar Simulator                                                                                                 2b       B       -       -

2.15.2 Serial Bus Analyzer                                                                                              -       -       -       -

2.15.3 Transmission Line Test Set                                                                                      2b       B       -       -

2.15.4 Fiber Optic Test Set                                                                                             -       -       -       -

2.15.5 Pulse Generator                                                                                                 2b       B       -       -

2.15.6 Network Analyzer                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

2.15.7 Power Meter                                                                                                     2b       B       -       -

2.15.8 Spectrum Analyzer                                                                                               2b       B       -       -

2.15.9 Time Domain Reflectometer                                                                                       2b       B       -       -
        (TDR)
2.15.10 ALM-288                                                                                                        2b       B       -       -

2.15.11 Frequency Counter                                                                                              2b       B       -       -

2.15.12   Reprogramming Support
          Equipment
2.15.12.1 Data Access Devices (STU                                                                                      -       B       -       -
          III, STE, CAPRE, RASP
          modems, TACLANE KG-
          175, and others)
2.15.12.2 Data Transfer Devices                                                                                        2b       B       -       -
          (MLV/PLV, CAPRE, and
          others)
2.16 MAINTAIN

2.16.1 APM-427 Radar Simulator or                                                                                       -       -       -       -
       equivalent
2.16.2 ASM-695 PLV                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

2.16.3 PYM-1 CAPRE                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

2.16.4 MWS Sensor Simulator                                                                                             -       -       -       -

2.16.5 MWS Test Set                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

2.16.6 AN/ALM-288 Countermeasure                                                                                        -       -       -       -
       Dispenser Tester (CDT)
2.16.7 AN/ALM 178                                                                                                       -       -       -       -
       TR: TM 11-6625-2739-14,
       TM 11-6625-2739-14


                                                                 32                                                              Attachment 2
                                      COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.16.8 SM764A RF Simulator                                                                                              -       -       -       -
       TR: TM 11-6940-213-1
2.17 AIRCRAFT
     WIRING/TRANSMISSION
     LINES
     TR: TO 1-1A-14, 12P3-1-10,
     31-10-14
2.17.1 Kapton wire                                                                                                      B       B       -       -

2.17.2 Multi-conductor                                                                                                  B       B       -       -

2.17.3 Coaxial/Triaxial/Twinaxial                                                                                       B       B       -       -

2.17.4 Nuclear hardened cable                                                                                           B       B       -       -

2.17.5 Waveguides                                                                                                       B       B       -       -

2.17.6 Single Conductor                                                                                                 B       B       -       -

2.17.7 Rigid coaxial                                                                                                    B       B       -       -

2.17.8 Fiber Optics                                                                                                     B       B       -       -

2.18 PERFORM WIRE
     MAINTENANCE
     TR: TO 1-1A-14, 31-10-14
2.18.1 Stripping                                                                                                       2b       -       -       -

2.18.2 Splicing                                                                                                        2b       -       -       -

2.18.3 Bundling                                                                                                        2b       -       -       -

2.18.4 Strain Relief                                                                                                   2b       -       -       -

2.18.5 Continuity Checks                                                                                               2b       -       -       -

2.18.6 Wire Repair                                                                                                      -       B       -       -

2.18.7 Splice fiber optics                                                                                              -       -       -       -

2.18.8 Clean fiber optics                                                                                               -       -       -       -

2.19 LOCAL AREA NETWORKS
     TR: AFI 33 & 63 series; AFIND
     27
2.19.1 LAN Principles                                                                                                   -       -       -       -




                                                                 33                                                              Attachment 2
                                      COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
2.19.2 Ethernet                                                                                                         -       -       -       -

2.19.3 Fiber Optics (FDDI, ATM)                                                                                         -       -       -       -




                                                                 34                                                              Attachment 2
                                              B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                 5      7     Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                                Lvl    Lvl     Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 3
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
3.1 GENERAL ORGANIZATION
     MAINTENANCE
     TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-00GV-00-1
3.1.1 Operate auxiliary power units                                                                                          -       -       -       -
       (APUs)
3.1.2 Apply external liquid coolant                                                                                          -       -       -       -

3.1.3    Ensure aircraft safe for               *                                                                            -       -       -       -
         maintenance
3.1.4    Apply Hydraulic Power                                                                                               -       -       -       -

3.1.5    Operate Flaps                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

3.1.6    Appy external power                    *                                                                            -       -       -       -

3.2 ON-AIRCRAFT TEST
      SYSTEMS
3.2.1 Central Integrated Test
        System (CITS)
3.2.1.1   Purpose                                                                                                            A       A       -       -
          TR: TO 1B-1B-2-46GS-00-1
3.2.1.2   Perform Ground Readiness                                                                                           -       -       -       -
          Test (GRT)
          TR: TO 1B-1B2-40JG-46-1
3.2.1.3   Interface with Defensive                                                                                           A       A       -       -
          Avionics Systems (DAS)
          TR: TOs 1B-1B-2- 46GS-00-
          1, -93GS-00-1, -2
3.2.1.4   Use Parameter Monitor Codes           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          for systems monitoring/fault
          isolation
          TR: System GS-00-1, GS-00-
          2
3.2.1.5   Use CITS data snapshots                                                                                            -       -       -       -
          TR: 1B-1B-2-40GS-00-1
3.2.1.6   Use CITS Deployable                             *                                                                  -       -       -       -
          Diagnostic System
3.2.1.7   Use aircraft STIM codes                         *                                                                  -       -       -       -
          (PC Ops)
3.3 ELECTRICAL
      MULTIPLEXING SYSTEM
      (EMUX)


                                                                      35                                                              Attachment 3
                                        B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
3.3.1   Purpose                                                                                                         A       A       -       -
        TR: TO 1B-1B-2-92GS-00-1
3.3.2 Interface with DAS                                                                                                A       A       -       -
        TR: TO 1B-1B-2-92GS-00-1, -2
3.4 AVIONICS CONTROL UNIT
      COMPLEX (ACUC)
3.4.1 Purpose                                                                                                           A       A       -       -
        TR: TO 1B-1B-2-92GS-00-1
3.4.2 Interface with DAS Systems                                                                                        A       A       -       -
        TR: TO 1B-1B-2-92GS-00-1,
         -2, -3
3.4.3 Load and Log off ACUC                                                                                             -       -       -       -
        TR: TO 1B-1B-2-34JG-60-2
3.4.4 Perform data erase                                                                                                -       -       -       -
        TR: TO 1B-1B-2-34JG-60-2
3.4.5 Use FIA Page                                                                                                      -       -       -       -
        TR: TO 1B-1B-93GS-00-2
3.5 DEFENSIVE SYSTEMS
      ORGANIZATIONAL LEVEL
      MAINTENANCE
3.5.1 Functional operation of                                                                                           A       A       -       -
        AN/ALQ-161
        TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93GS-00-1,
        -2, -3
3.5.2 End-to-end check of AN/ALQ-
        161
        TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93-8-1
3.5.2.1    Enhanced Automated Special                                                                                   -       -       -       -
           Test Equipment and Hooded
           Antenna Test System
           TR: TOs 33D7-13-205-1, and
           33D7-35-64-1
3.5.2.2    Theory of Operation                                                                                          -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3     Perform functional
            checkouts

3.5.2.3.1     Parameter Encoder                                                                                         -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3.2     LEES Sensitivity                                                                                          -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3.3     Wide Open Sensitivity                                                                                     -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3.4     Reject YIG Filter                                                                                         -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3.5     Nose Detect                                                                                               -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3.6     PD/CW Spiral Search                                                                                       -       -       -       -


                                                                 36                                                              Attachment 3
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
3.5.2.3.7     Antenna Direction of                                                                                         -       -       -       -
              Arrival
3.5.2.3.8     RF Signal Management                                                                                         -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3.9     NEAJAM                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3.10    Transmitter Maximum                                                                                          -       -       -       -
              Power
3.5.2.3.11    Beamsteering                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3.12    Repeater                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3.13    1122 Function                                                                                                -       -       -       -

3.5.2.3.14    Tail Warning Function                                                                                        -       -       -       -

3.5.3   Defensive Management
        Subsystem
3.5.3.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -
          TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93GS-00-
          1, -2, -3
3.5.3.2   Perform Ground Readiness
          Test (GRT)
          TR: TO 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-1
3.5.3.2.1    Defensive System Operator                                                                                     -       -       -       -
             (DSO) track handle
3.5.3.2.2    Radio Frequency/                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -
             Surveillance/Electronic
             Countermeasures
             (RFS/ECM) panel
3.5.3.2.2    Defensive System Operator                                                                                     -       -       -       -
             (DSO) Power Panel
3.5.3.2.4    Defensive System Operator                                                                                     -       -       -       -
             (DSO) Display Electronics
             Unit/Multifunction Display
             (DEU/MFD)
3.5.3.2.5    Graphics                                                                                                      -       -       -       -
             Generator/Electronic
             Display Unit (GG/EDU) #1
3.5.3.2.6    Graphics                                                                                                      -       -       -       -
             Generator/Electronic
             Display Unit (GG/EDU) #2
3.5.3.2.7    Defensive System Operator                                                                                     -       -       -       -
             Integrated Keyboard
             (DSO IKB)
3.5.3.2.8    Control & Display (C&D)                                                                                       -       -       -       -
             power supply
3.5.3.2.9    Left/right/aft sector power                                                                                   -       -       -       -
             supply initialization

                                                                    37                                                              Attachment 3
                                            B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
3.5.3.3      Troubleshoot                                                                                                   -       -       -       -
             TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-
             1; -93GS-00-1, -2; -93WD-
             00-1; -93GS-00-3
3.5.3.4      Remove and Install LRUs

3.5.3.4.1      Control and Display                                                                                          -       -       -       -
               Avionics Control Computer
               (CDACC)
3.5.3.4.2      DSO tracking handle                                                                                          -       -       -       -

3.5.3.4.3      RFS/SCM control panel                                                                                        -       -       -       -

3.5.3.4.4      DSO power panel                                                                                              -       -       -       -

3.5.3.4.5      Multifunction display           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               indicator (MDI)
3.5.3.4.6      Electronic display unit                                                                                      -       -       -       -
               (EDU)
3.5.3.4.7      Preprocessor Avionics                                                                                        -       -       -       -
               Control Computer (PACC)

3.5.3.4.8      Receiver threshold control                                                                                   -       -       -       -
               (RTC)
3.5.3.4.9      PACC transformer                                                                                             -       -       -       -

3.5.3.4.10     Advanced Tracking Unit                                                                                       -       -       -       -
               (ATU)

3.5.3.4.11     Control Interface Unit                                                                                       -       -       -       -
               (CIU)

3.5.3.4.12     Jammer Logic A (JLA)                                                                                         -       -       -       -

3.5.3.4.13     Jammer Logic B (JLB)                                                                                         -       -       -       -

3.5.3.4.14     Central System Power                                                                                         -       -       -       -
               Supply
3.5.3.4.15     Sector Power Supply                                                                                          -       -       -       -

3.5.3.4.16     Wheel Well Power Supply                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.3.4.17     Graphics Generator                                                                                           -       -       -       -

3.5.3.4.18     Integrated Keyboard (IKB)                                                                                    -       -       -       -

3.5.3.4.19     Controls and Displays                                                                                        -       -       -       -
               Power Supply


                                                                     38                                                              Attachment 3
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
3.5.4     Detection Subsystem

3.5.4.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -
          TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93GS-00-
          1, -2, -3
3.5.4.2   Perform Ground Readiness                                                                                         -       -       -       -
          Test (GRT)
          TR: TO 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-1
3.5.4.3   Troubleshoot                                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93-8-1;
          1B-1B-2-93GS-00-1, -2, -3;
          -93WD-00-1; and CITS
          Parameter File
3.5.4.4   Remove and Install LRUs
          TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93JG-40-1,
          -2
3.5.4.4.1    Directional Finding                                                                                           -       -       -       -
             Encoder

3.5.4.4.2     Encoder                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.4.4.3     Bands 4/5 receive antennas                                                                                   -       -       -       -

3.5.4.4.4     Bands 6 and 7 spiral                                                                                         -       -       -       -
              receive antennas
3.5.4.4.5     Band 8 spiral receiver                                                                                       -       -       -       -
              antenna
3.5.4.4.6     Band 6 antenna directional                                                                                   -       -       -       -
              receiver
3.5.4.4.7     Band 7 antenna directional                                                                                   -       -       -       -
              receiver
3.5.4.4.8     Band 8 antenna directional                                                                                   -       -       -       -
              receiver
3.5.4.4.9     Bands 1, 2, and 3 blade                                                                                      -       -       -       -
              antenna
3.5.4.4.10    Band 6 analysis antenna                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.4.4.11    Band 7 analysis antenna                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.4.4.12    Band 8 analysis antenna                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.4.4.13    Band 6 interferometer                                                                                        -       -       -       -
              antenna
3.5.4.4.14    Bands 4-8 receiver              *                                                                            -       -       -       -

3.5.4.4.15    Bands 1-3 receiver                                                                                           -       -       -       -




                                                                    39                                                              Attachment 3
                                            B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
3.5.4.4.16     Frequency channelizer                                                                                        -       -       -       -

3.5.4.4.17     Bands 6, 7 and 8 aft                                                                                         -       -       -       -
               antenna directional
               receiver
3.5.4.4.18     Interferometer receiver                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.5     Active subsystem

3.5.5.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                               -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93GS-00-1,
          -2, -3
3.5.5.2   Perform Waveform Generator                                                                                        -       -       -       -
          Data Load
3.5.5.3   Perform Ground Readiness
          Test (GRT)
          TR: TO 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-1
3.5.5.3.1    Band 4 forward transmitter                                                                                     -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.2      Band 4 aft transmitter                                                                                       -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.3      Band 5 forward transmitter                                                                                   -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.4      Band 5 aft transmitter                                                                                       -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.5      Band 6 left transmitter                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.6      Band 6 right transmitter                                                                                     -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.7      Band 6 aft transmitter                                                                                       -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.8      Band 7 left transmitter                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.9      Band 7 right transmitter                                                                                     -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.10     Band 7 aft transmitter                                                                                       -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.11     Band 8 left transmitter                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.12     Band 8 right transmitter                                                                                     -       -       -       -

3.5.5.3.13     Band 8 aft transmitter                                                                                       -       -       -       -

3.5.5.4      Troubleshoot                                                                                                   -       -       -       -
             TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93-8-1;
             -3GS-00-1, -2, -3; -93WD-00-
             1 and CITS Parameter File
             (CPF)


                                                                     40                                                              Attachment 3
                                            B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
3.5.5.5      Remove and Install LRUs

3.5.5.5.1      Band 4 forward                                                                                               -       -       -       -
               transmitting antenna
3.5.5.5.2      Band 5 forward                                                                                               -       -       -       -
               transmitting antenna
3.5.5.5.3      Band 4 aft transmitting                                                                                      -       -       -       -
               antenna
3.5.5.5.4      Band 5 aft transmitting                                                                                      -       -       -       -
               antenna
3.5.5.5.5      Bands 4/5 RF source                                                                                          -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.6      Band 4 forward transmitter                                                                                   -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.7      Band 4 aft transmitter                                                                                       -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.8      Band 5 forward transmitter                                                                                   -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.9      Band 5 aft transmitter                                                                                       -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.10     Band 6 forward transmitter                                                                                   -       -       -       -
               antenna
3.5.5.5.11     Band 6 aft transmitter                                                                                       -       -       -       -
               antenna
3.5.5.5.12     Band 6 RF source                                                                                             -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.13     Band 6 transmitter                                                                                           -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.14     Band 6 driver                                                                                                -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.15     Band 7 left forward                                                                                          -       -       -       -
               transmitter antenna
3.5.5.5.16     Band 7 right forward            *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               transmitter antenna
3.5.5.5.17     Band 7 aft transmitter          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               antenna
3.5.5.5.18     Band 7 function 1122 fwd                                                                                     -       -       -       -
               antenna
3.5.5.5.19     Band 7 function 1122 aft                                                                                     -       -       -       -
               antenna
3.5.5.5.20     Band 7 RF source                                                                                             -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.21     Band 7 function 1122                                                                                         -       -       -       -
               switch
3.5.5.5.22     Band 7 transmitter                        *                                                                  -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.23     Band 7 function 1122                                                                                         -       -       -       -
               sector select switch

                                                                     41                                                              Attachment 3
                                            B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
3.5.5.5.24    Band 7 driver                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.25    Band 7 waveguide                                                                                              -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.26    Band 8 forward transmitter                                                                                    -       -       -       -
              antenna
3.5.5.5.27    Band 8 aft transmitter                                                                                        -       -       -       -
              antenna
3.5.5.5.28    Band 8 function 1122 fwd                                                                                      -       -       -       -
              antenna
3.5.5.5.29    Band 8 function 1122 aft                                                                                      -       -       -       -
              antenna
3.5.5.5.30    Band 8 RF source                                                                                              -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.31    Band 8 driver-transmitter                                                                                     -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.32    Band 8 function 1122                                                                                          -       -       -       -
              switch
3.5.5.5.33    Band 8 function 1122                                                                                          -       -       -       -
              sector select switch
3.5.5.5.34    Band 8 wave guide                                                                                             -       -       -       -

3.5.5.5.35    Band 6, 7, and 8 electronic                                                                                   -       -       -       -
              beam forming unit
3.5.5.5.36    Waveform generator                                                                                            -       -       -       -

3.5.6     Passive subsystem

3.5.6.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                               -       -       -       -
          TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93GS-00-
          1, -2, -3
3.5.6.2   Perform Ground Readiness                                                                                          -       -       -       -
          Test (GRT)
          TR: TO 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-1
3.5.6.3   Perform fire pulse checkout                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93JG-30-1
3.5.6.4   Troubleshoot                                   *                                                                  -       -       -       -
          TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-
          1; -93GS-00-1; -93WD-00-1,
          -2, -3
3.5.6.5   Remove and Install LRUs
          TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93JG-30-1
3.5.6.5.1    EXCM controller                                                                                                -       -       -       -

3.5.6.5.2     EXCM safety switch                                                                                            -       -       -       -

3.5.7     Warning subsystem



                                                                     42                                                              Attachment 3
                                             B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
3.5.7.1     Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -
            TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93GS-00-1,
            -2, -3
3.5.7.2     Perform Ground Readiness                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            Test (GRT)
            TR: TO 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-1
3.5.7.3     Troubleshoot                                                                                                     -       -       -       -
            TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93-8-1; -
            93GS-00-1, -2, -3; -93WD-
            00-1 and CITS Parameter File
            (CPF)
3.5.8     Remove and Install LRUs
          TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93JG-80-1
3.5.8.1     Tail warning function receiver                                                                                   -       -       -       -
            processor
3.5.8.2     Tail warning function antenna                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            assembly
3.5.8.3     ALE-50 Towed Decoy

3.5.8.3.1      Theory of Operation                                                                                           B       B       -       -
               TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93GS-00-
               1, -2
3.5.8.3.2      Perform BIT                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

3.5.8.3.3      Perform Operational                                                                                           -       -       -       -
               Checkout
3.5.8.3.4      Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

3.5.8.3.5      Remove and Install LRUs
               TR: TO-1B-1B-2-93JG-
               10-3
3.5.8.3.5.1      Control Display Unit                                                                                        -       -       -       -

3.5.8.3.5.2       Circuit Breaker Panel                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.8.3.5.3       Power Supply                                                                                               -       -       -       -

3.5.8.3.5.4       Transformer/Rectifier                                                                                      -       -       -       -

3.5.8.3.5.5       Multi-Platform Launch                                                                                      -       -       -       -
                  Controller/Improved
                  Multi-Platform Launch
                  Controller
3.5.8.3.5.6       Ground Safe/Arm                                                                                            -       -       -       -
                  Switch
3.5.8.3.5.7       System Interface Unit                                                                                      -       -       -       -




                                                                      43                                                              Attachment 3
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
3.5.8.3.5.8       Launcher                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
                  Assembly/Dual-
                  Capable Launcher
3.5.8.3.5.9       Data link terminal                                                                                       -       -       -       -

3.5.8.3.6     Memory Loader Verifier
              Set AN/USQ-131 (MLVS)
3.5.8.3.6.1     Use and Operation                                                                                          -       -       -       -
                TR: 31S-2USQ-131-1
3.5.8.3.6.2     Perform Software                                                                                           -       -       -       -
                Loading and Verification
                TR: 31S-2USQ-131-1




                                                                    44                                                              Attachment 3
                                              B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 4
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
4.1 B-2 GENERAL
     MAINTENANCE
4.1.1 Operate AFT Avionics Bay Door                                                                                          -       -       -       -
       TR: 1B-2A-2-01JG-60-2
4.1.2 Perform ECS Power Up/Down                                                                                              -       -       -       -
       TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-00-1
4.1.3 Loosen/Tighten Swing Clamps                                                                                            -       -       -       -
       TR: 1B-2A-2-01JG-30-1
4.1.4 Install/Remove Maintenance                                                                                             -       -       -       -
       Write Disk
       TR: 1B-2A-2-31JG-10-1
4.1.5 Ensure Aircraft Safe for                  *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       Maintenance
       TR: 1B-2A-2-05JG-20-1
4.1.6 Apply External Power                      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       TR: 1B-2A-2-05JG-10-1,
       1B-2A-2-05JG-10-2
4.2 ON-BOARD TEST SYSTEM
     (OBTS)
4.2.1 Functional Theory of Operation                                                                                         A       -       -       -
       TR: TOs 1B-2A-2-31GS-00-1,
        -40GS-00-1
4.2.2 Purpose                                                                                                                A       -       -       -
       TR: TO 1B-2A-2-24GS-00-1
4.2.3 Interface with DAS systems                                                                                             A       -       -       -
       TR: TO 1B-2A-2-93GS-00-1
4.2.4 Use OBTS Data and OBTS                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
       Digital Computer System
       (ODCS) Reports for fault
       isolation of Aircraft Systems
       Malfunctions
       TR: TO 1B-2A-2-40GS-00-1
       and applicable system GS-00-1
4.2.5 Login/Logout OGPII                                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       TR: Software Users Manual-
4.2.6 Produce/Recreate Debrief                                                                                               -       -       -       -
       Reports
       TR: TO 31S5-4-2340-1
4.2.7 Run Predefined Text and                                                                                                -       -       -       -
       Graphics Reports
       TR: TO 31S5-4-2340-1
4.2.8 Produce Ad-Hoc Reports                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
       TR: TO 31S5-4-2340-1

                                                                      45                                                              Attachment 4
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
4.3 MULTIPLEX BUS SYSTEM

4.3.1     Purpose                                                                                                          B       -       -       -
          TR: TO 1B-2A-2-40GS-00-1
4.3.2     Functional theory of operation                                                                                   B       -       -       -
          TR: TO 1B-2A-A-40GS-00-1
4.3.3     Troubleshoot                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

4.3.4   Remove and Install
        TR: TO 1B-2A-2-27GS-00-1
4.3.4.1   Bus connectors                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

4.3.4.2     Bus terminators                                                                                                -       -       -       -

4.3.4.3     Bus couplers                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

4.4 FLIGHT MANAGEMENT
     SYSTEM
4.4.1 Purpose                                                                                                              A       A       -       -

4.4.2     Interface with DMS                                                                                               A       A       -       -

4.4.3     Perform OFP Load                    *                                                                            -       -       -       -

4.4.4     Perform Mission Data Load           *                                                                            -       -       -       -

4.4.5     Perform Classified Data Erase       *                                                                            -       -       -       -

4.5 DEFENSIVE SYSTEMS
      ORGANIZATIONAL LEVEL
      MAINTENANCE
4.5.1 Defensive management
        processors (ZSR-61 system)
4.5.1.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                              B       B       -       -
          TR: TO 1B-2A-2-93GS-00-1
4.5.1.2   Troubleshoot                                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          TR: TOs 1B-2A-2-93GS-00-
          1, -93WD-00-1
4.5.2 Remove/Install Processor                *                                                                            -       -       -       -

4.5.3   AN/APR-50 Receiver (Threat
        emitter location system)
4.5.3.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                              B       B       -       -
          TR: TO 1B-2A-2-93GS-00-1
4.5.3.2   Perform preprocessor data                     *                                                                  -       -       -       -
          load
          TR: TO 1B-2A-2-93JG-50-1



                                                                    46                                                              Attachment 4
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
4.5.3.3      Perform operational check        *                                                                            -       -       -       -
             TR: TO 1B-2A-2-40JG-10-1
4.5.3.4      Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -       -       -       -
             TR: TOs 1B-2A-2-93GS-00-
             1, -93WD-00-1
4.5.3.5      Remove/Install

4.5.3.5.1      Band -1, -2, -3 Receiver       *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               Tasks 93-52-111-2-3
4.5.3.5.2      Band-4 Receiver Tasks 93-      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               52-111-2, -3
4.5.3.5.3      Preprocessor Tasks 93-52-                                                                                   -       -       -       -
               109-2, -3
4.5.3.5.4      Processor Tasks 93-52-                                                                                      -       -       -       -
               107-2, -3
4.5.3.5.5      RF front end - Band 1                                                                                       -       -       -       -
               Tasks 93-52-101-2, -3
4.5.3.5.6      RF front end - Band 2/3                                                                                     -       -       -       -
               Tasks 93-52-103-2, -3
4.5.3.5.7      RF front end - Band 3          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               Tasks 93-52-105-2, -3
4.5.3.5.8      Band-1 Antenna                                                                                              -       -       -       -

4.5.3.5.9      Band-2 Antenna                                                                                              -       -       -       -

4.5.3.5.10     Band-3 Antenna                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

4.5.3.5.11     Band-4 Antenna                           *                                                                  -       -       -       -

4.5.3.5.12     Aft junction box                                                                                            -       -       -       -

4.5.3.5.13     Cable compensation unit                                                                                     -       -       -       -

4.5.3.5.14     Phase matched cables                                                                                        -       -       -       -

4.5.3.5.15     Semi-rigid coaxial cables                                                                                   -       -       -       -

4.5.3.5.16     Microcircuit Programmer                  *                                                                  -       -       -       -
               (MLV)
               TR: 33D7-159-1
4.5.3.5.17     AN/GSM-352 Antenna                       *                                                                  -       -       -       -
               system test set
               TR: 33D7-135-1
4.5.3.5.18     AN/ALM-280 Enhanced                      *                                                                  -       -       -       -
               Automated Special Test
               Equipment
               TR: 33D7-13-205-1



                                                                    47                                                              Attachment 4
                                       B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      2A533C
                                       2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                       Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
                                          A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                     3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                        Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                      Level Level         Level
                                          5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                      CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                         Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
4.6 PILOT ALERT SYSTEM
     TR: TO 1B-2A-2-31GS-00-1
4.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                              A       A       -       -

4.6.2     Perform operation check         *                                                                            -       -       -       -

4.6.3     Fault isolation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

4.6.4     Perform Leak Test                                                                                            -       -       -       -

4.6.5     Perform Purge Test                                                                                           -       -       -       -

4.6.6   Remove/Install                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
        TR: TO 1B-2A-2-31JG-50-1
4.6.6.1   Sensor                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

4.6.6.2     Processor                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

4.6.6.3     Dehumidifier (Desiccant)                                                                                   -       -       -       -




                                                                48                                                              Attachment 4
                                        B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                             2A533C
                                              2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
                                                 A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                            3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                               Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                             Level Level         Level
                                                 5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                             CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                                Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 5
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
5.1 ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
     TR: 1B-52H, 1B-52H-6, 1B-52H-
     2-XGA-X, 1B-52H-2JG-2, and
     1B-52H-6WC-1
5.1.1 General

5.1.1.1     Ensure Aircraft Is Safe For
            Maintenance
5.1.1.1.1      Inspect fire extinguishers        *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               for Serviceability
5.1.1.1.2      Check/connect aircraft            *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               static ground wires
5.1.1.1.3      Check/install ejection seat       *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               safing pins
5.1.1.1.4      Check/install aircraft wheel      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               chocks
5.1.1.1.5      Inspect aircraft for              *                                                                            -       -       -       -
               hazardous conditions such
               as fuel and liquid oxygen
               leaks
5.1.1.2     Locate electrical distribution                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            system components (circuit
            breakers, relays, etc.)
5.1.1.3     Remove and replace circuit                                                                                        -       -       -       -
            breakers, fuses, lamps, and
            relays
5.1.1.4     Apply external power                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.1.5     Operate aircraft interphone                                                                                       -       -       -       -
            system
5.1.1.6     Open and close nose radome           *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.1.7     Secure/unsecure aircraft             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            panels, doors, and radomes
            applicable to EW systems
5.1.1.8     Inspect and repair LRU racks,                                                                                     -       -       -       -
            shock mounts, and static
            bonding devices
5.1.1.9     Perform aircraft preflight           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            inspection (EWS portion)



                                                                       49                                                              Attachment 5
                                      B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.1.1.10    Perform aircraft alert         *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            inspection (EWS portion)
5.1.1.11    Operate flaps                                                                                               -       -       -       -

5.1.2   AN/ALE-20 Flare Ejector
        System
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect. 6
5.1.2.1   Theory of operation                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.1.2.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                                -       -       -       -

5.1.2.3   Perform stepper switch           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          resetting procedure
5.1.2.4   Adjust flare door safety                   *                                                                  -       -       -       -
          switch
5.1.2.5   Perform Operational
          Checks
5.1.2.5.1    Preload checkout              *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.2.5.2     Fast checkout                                                                                             -       -       -       -

5.1.2.5.3     Complete checkout                                                                                         -       -       -       -

5.1.2.6   Remove And Install
          Components
5.1.2.6.1 Flare programming control                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          panel
5.1.2.6.2 C-9510 Master Expendables                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          Control Panel (MECP)
5.1.2.6.3 Junction box                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

5.1.2.6.4 Stepping switches                                                                                             -       -       -       -

5.1.2.6.5 Ground test and safety           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          interlock switches
5.1.3 AN/ALE-24 Chaff Dispensing
        System
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect. 7
5.1.3.1   Theory of operation                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.1.3.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                                -       -       -       -

5.1.3.3   Perform Operational
          Checks
5.1.3.3.1   Chaff dispensing test                                                                                       -       -       -       -
            procedure
5.1.3.3.2   Complete checkout                                                                                           -       -       -       -


                                                                 50                                                              Attachment 5
                                      B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.1.3.4   Remove and Install
          Components
5.1.3.4.1   C-4507 Programmer                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.1.3.4.2     C-4508 Selector                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.1.3.4.3     D-20 Ejectors                                                                                             -       -       -       -

5.1.3.4.4     Magazines                    *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.4   AN/ALR-20 Panoramic
        Receiver
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 4
5.1.4.1   Theory of operation                                                                                           B       B       -       -

5.1.4.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                               2b       -       -       -

5.1.4.3   Perform Operational
          Checks
5.1.4.3.1   Fast checkout                                                                                              2b       -       -       -

5.1.4.3.2     Look through checks                                                                                       -       -       -       -

5.1.4.3.3     Monitor probe antenna                                                                                     -       -       -       -
              check
5.1.4.3.4     Blanking check                                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.4.4   Remove and Install
          Components
5.1.4.4.1   C-9449 Receiver control                                                                                     -       -       -       -

5.1.4.4.2     C-4782 Jammer control                                                                                     -       -       -       -

5.1.4.4.3     IP-1168, IP1168B                                                                                          -       -       -       -
              Indicators
5.1.4.4.4     PP-3406 Power supply                                                                                      -       -       -       -

5.1.4.4.5     TN-386A - TN-391A                                                                                         -       -       -       -
              Tuners
5.1.4.4.6     Blanking amplifier                                                                                        -       -       -       -

5.1.4.4.7     DC6012, DC6013, DC6014                                                                                    -       -       -       -
              Directional Couplers
5.1.4.4.8     S6239 Omni monitor                                                                                        -       -       -       -
              coaxial switch
5.1.4.4.9     Antennas                                                                                                  -       -       -       -



                                                                 51                                                              Attachment 5
                                      B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.1.5   AN/ALT-32A Jamming
        Transmitter
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 11
5.1.5.1   Theory of operation                                                                                            B       B       -       -

5.1.5.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

5.1.5.3     Perform Fast Checkout                                                                                        -       -       -       -

5.1.5.4   Remove and Install
          Components
5.1.5.4.1   C-7721, C-7722 Control-                                                                                      -       -       -       -
            Indicators

5.1.5.4.2     PP-6087 Power supplies                                                                                     -       -       -       -

5.1.5.4.3     T-1086, T-1087                                                                                             -       -       -       -
              Transmitters
5.1.5.4.4     FL6130, FL6136 Filters                                                                                     -       -       -       -

5.1.5.4.5     Antennas                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

5.1.6   AN/ALT-16A / AN/ALQ-122
        Countermeasures System
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 8
5.1.6.1   Theory of operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.6.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

5.1.6.3   Perform Operational
          Checks
5.1.6.3.1   Operational checkout                                                                                         -       -       -       -

5.1.6.3.2   Operational checkout using                                                                                   -       -       -       -
            the AN/USM-464
            Countermeasures Test Set
5.1.6.3.3   System test cable                                                                                            -       -       -       -
            measurement
5.1.6.3.4   Jamming transmistter fast                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            checkout
5.1.6.4   Remove and Install
          Components
5.1.6.4.1   C-3358 Control-Indicators                                                                                    -       -       -       -

5.1.6.4.2     T-787A Transmitters                                                                                        -       -       -       -

5.1.6.4.3     AM-2714A Amplifiers                                                                                        -       -       -       -



                                                                  52                                                              Attachment 5
                                      B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.1.6.4.4      C-9040 Control-Monitor                                                                                   -       -       -       -

5.1.6.4.5      MX-9187 Processor                                                                                        -       -       -       -

5.1.6.4.6      R-1787 Receiver                                                                                          -       -       -       -

5.1.6.4.7      CU-2030 Duplexers                                                                                        -       -       -       -

5.1.6.4.8      CU-2137 Directional                                                                                      -       -       -       -
               coupler
5.1.6.4.9      FL6131, FL6132, FL6158                                                                                   -       -       -       -
               Filters
5.1.6.4.10     AT-6012 Attenuator                                                                                       -       -       -       -

5.1.6.4.11     Antennas                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

5.1.7   AN/ALQ-153(V) TAIL                                                                                              -       -       -       -
        WARNING SYSTEM
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 14
5.1.7.1   Theory of operation                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.1.7.2      Troubleshoot                                                                                               -       -       -       -

5.1.7.3      Operational checkout                                                                                       -       -       -       -

5.1.7.4   Remove and Install
          Components
5.1.7.4.1   C-10259 Control-Indicator                                                                                   -       -       -       -

5.1.7.4.2      CV-3439 Analog Data                                                                                      -       -       -       -
               Signal Processor
5.1.7.4.3      CV-3438 Digital Data                                                                                     -       -       -       -
               Signal Processor
5.1.7.4.4      RT-1239 Radar                                                                                            -       -       -       -
               Receiver/Transmitter
5.1.7.4.5      AS-3139 Antennas                                                                                         -       -       -       -

5.1.7.4.6   MT-4907 RRT resilient                                                                                       -       -       -       -
            mount
5.1.7.4.7   MT-4906 Signal processor                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            resilient mount
5.1.8 AN/ALQ-155(V) POWER
        MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
5.1.8.1   Theory of operation                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.1.8.2      Troubleshoot                                                                                               -       -       -       -



                                                                 53                                                              Attachment 5
                                      B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.1.8.3     Perform HD-766A filling and      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            draining Procedures
5.1.8.4     Reprogram system                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.8.5   Perform Operational
          Checks
5.1.8.5.1   Cooling system check                                                                                          -       -       -       -

5.1.8.5.2     Fast checkout                  *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.8.5.3   System checkout using the                                                                                     -       -       -       -
            AN/USM-464
            Countermeasures Test Set
5.1.8.6   Remove and Install
          Components
5.1.8.6.1   C-10130 Control-                                                                                              -       -       -       -
            Indicator/Programmers
5.1.8.6.2   C-9525 Antenna select                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            panel
5.1.8.6.3   HD-766A Liquid coolers                                                                                        -       -       -       -

5.1.8.6.4     MX-8225 Flow protection                                                                                     -       -       -       -
              valves
5.1.8.6.5     RT-1219                        *                                                                            -       -       -       -
              Receiver/Transmitters and
              T- 1150D Transmitters
5.1.8.6.6     Antennas                       *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.8.6.7    Perform loading/unloading                                                                                    -       -       -       -
             procedures using
             transmitter loader
5.1.9 AN/ALQ-172(V)2
        Countermeasures System
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 3
5.1.9.1   Theory of operation                                                                                             B       B       -       -

5.1.9.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                                  b       -       -       -

5.1.9.3     Reprogram system                 *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

5.1.9.4     Reconfigure AS-4078 Phased       *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            array antennas
5.1.9.5     Adjust pressure switches         *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.9.6   Perform Operational
          Checks
5.1.9.6.1   System checkout                                                                                               -       -       -       -



                                                                   54                                                              Attachment 5
                                      B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.1.9.6.2     Interface check                                                                                             -       -       -       -

5.1.9.6.3     System checkout using the                                                                                   -       -       -       -
              AN/USM-464
              Countermeasures Test Set
5.1.9.6.4     Pressurization checks          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.9.6.5     Blanking check                                                                                              -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7   Remove and Install
          Components
5.1.9.7.1   R-2247 PR Receivers                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.2     T-1470 PR Transmitters                                                                                      -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.3     T-1476 PD Transmitters                                                                                      -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.4     C-11213 Control-Indicator                                                                                   -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.5     C-11270 Control-Monitor                                                                                     -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.6     CV-3773 Electronics Unit                                                                                    -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.7     AS-4078 Phased Array                                                                                        -       -       -       -
              Antennas
5.1.9.7.8     SA-2396 Quadrant                                                                                            -       -       -       -
              Switches
5.1.9.7.9     C-11271 Controllers                                                                                         -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.10    T-1471 ST Transmitter                                                                                       -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.11    E6329, E6414, E6332                                                                                         -       -       -       -
              Antennas
5.1.9.7.12    CV-3809 Signal data                                                                                         -       -       -       -
              converters
5.1.9.7.13    Blanking modules                                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.14    Pressure pumps                                                                                              -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.15    Pressure switches                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.1.9.7.16    Low pressure warning and                                                                                    -       -       -       -
              blanking control panel
5.1.9.7.17    A7226, A7231, A7232                                                                                         -       -       -       -
              Junction boxes
5.1.9.7.18    C-12615 Control Display                                                                                     -       -       -       -
              Unit


                                                                   55                                                              Attachment 5
                                       B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.1.9.7.19     ECMI Auxiliary Panel                                                                                         -       -       -       -

5.1.10 Sensor Integration
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 10
5.1.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -       -       -       -

5.1.10.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

5.1.10.3     Reprogram system                  *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.10.4     Perform operational checkout                                                                                   -       -       -       -

5.1.10.5  Remove and Install System
          Components
5.1.10.5.1 ID-2463 Control-Indicator                                                                                        -       -       -       -

5.1.10.5.2     IP-1362 Multi-function                                                                                       -       -       -       -
               display
5.1.10.5.3     CM-465A Signal Processor                                                                                     -       -       -       -

5.1.10.5.4     Digital data couplers                                                                                        -       -       -       -

5.1.11 Radar Warning Receiver
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 12
5.1.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -       -       -       -

5.1.11.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

5.1.11.3     Perform dot centering                                                                                          -       -       -       -
             adjustment
5.1.11.4     Reprogram system                  *                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.1.11.5  Perform Operational
          Checks
5.1.11.5.1 Operational Checkout                                                                                             -       -       -       -

5.1.11.5.2     System checkout using the                                                                                    -       -       -       -
               AN/USM-464
               Countermeasures Test Set
5.1.11.5.3     Blanking check                                                                                               -       -       -       -

5.1.11.6  Remove and Install
          Components
5.1.11.6.1 AM-6639 Amplifier-                                                                                               -       -       -       -
            Detectors
5.1.11.6.2 C-11528 Indicator-Control                                                                                        -       -       -       -
            Unit


                                                                     56                                                              Attachment 5
                                      B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.1.11.6.3     IP-1310 Azimuth                                                                                          -       -       -       -
               Indicators
5.1.11.6.4     CM-442, CM-479 Signal                                                                                    -       -       -       -
               Processors
5.1.11.6.5     Antennas                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

5.2 OFF-EQUIPMENT
      MAINTENANCE
      TR: TO 00-25-234, 1-1A-15
5.2.1 Fabricate test bench/mock-up                                                                                      -       -       -       -
        TR: TO 00-25-234, 1-1A-15,
        33-1-32
5.2.2 Maintain test bench/mock-up                                                                                       -       -       -       -
        TR: TO 00-25-234, 1-1A-15
5.2.3 Perform visual inspection of                                                                                      -       -       -       -
        LRUs
5.2.4 AN/ALE-24 Chaff Dispensing
        System
        TR: TO 12P3-2ALE24-2,
        12P3-2ALE24-4
5.2.4.1   Perform AN/ALE-24 chaff          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          magazine loading and
          handling procedures
5.2.4.2   Perform Operational
          Checkout
5.2.4.2.1    C-4507 Programmer                                                                                          -       -       -       -

5.2.4.2.2      C-4508 Selector                                                                                          -       -       -       -

5.2.4.2.3      D-20 Dispenser                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.2.4.3      Troubleshoot/Align

5.2.4.3.1      C-4507 Programmer                                                                                        -       -       -       -

5.2.4.3.2      C-4508 Selector                                                                                          -       -       -       -

5.2.4.3.3      D-20 Dispenser                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.2.5   AN/ALQ-155(V) Power
        Management System
        TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ155-2
5.2.5.1   Perform C-10130 Operational                                                                                   -       -       -       -
          checkout
5.2.5.2   Align/Reprogram C-10130                                                                                       -       -       -       -

5.2.5.3      Troubleshoot C-10130                                                                                       -       -       -       -



                                                                 57                                                              Attachment 5
                                      B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.2.5.4     Perform T1150D/RT-1219                                                                                      -       -       -       -
            Operational checkout

5.2.5.5     Align T-1150D/RT-1219                                                                                       -       -       -       -

5.2.5.6   Troubleshoot T-1150D/RT-                                                                                      -       -       -       -
          1219
5.2.5.7   AN/ALM-99B Test Set
          TR: TO 33D7-42-11-1
5.2.5.7.1   Perform operational                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            checkout

5.2.5.7.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                              -       -       -       -

5.2.5.7.3     Calibrate                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

5.2.5.8     AN/ALM-194
            TR: TO 33D7-13-80-1
5.2.5.8.1     Perform operational                                                                                       -       -       -       -
              checkout
5.2.5.8.2     Perform power supply                                                                                      -       -       -       -
              voltage measurement
5.2.5.8.3     Perform preventive                                                                                        -       -       -       -
              maintenance
5.2.5.8.4     Troubleshoot                                                                                              -       -       -       -

5.2.5.9   AN/ALM-244
          TR: TO 33D7-29-7-1
5.2.5.9.1   Inspect and repair                                                                                          -       -       -       -

5.2.6   AN/ALQ-172(V) CM
        SYSTEM
        TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ172-2
5.2.6.1   Perform system checkout                                                                                       -       -       -       -

5.2.6.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                                -       -       -       -

5.2.6.3     Reprogram LRUs                                                                                              -       -       -       -

5.2.6.4     Perform LRU repairs                                                                                         -       -       -       -

5.2.6.5   AN/ALM-252(V) Test
          Bench
          TR: TO 33D7-13-109-1
5.2.6.5.1   Operate                                                                                                    2b       -       -       -

5.2.6.5.2     Inspect and clean                                                                                         -       -       -       -



                                                                 58                                                              Attachment 5
                                      B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.2.6.5.3     Perform calibration check                                                                                   -       -       -       -
              and adjustment
5.2.6.5.4     Perform checkout                                                                                            -       -       -       -

5.2.6.5.5     Troubleshoot                                                                                                -       -       -       -

5.2.6.6   AN/ALM-267 Miltope Tiger
          II Electronic Test Set
          TR: TO 33D7-3-335-1,
          TM M365-295
5.2.6.6.1    Operate                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

5.2.6.6.2     Inspect and clean                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.2.6.6.3     Troubleshoot                                                                                                -       -       -       -

5.2.6.6.4     Repair                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

5.2.7   AN/USM-464
        COUNTERMEASURES
        TEST SET
        TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1
5.2.7.1   Perform inspections and                                                                                         -       -       -       -
          preventive maintenance
5.2.7.2   Troubleshoot                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

5.2.7.3   Remove and replace                                                                                              -       -       -       -
          components
5.2.7.4   Perform Intermediate Level                                                                                      -       -       -       -
          Calibration
5.2.7.5   Perform Winchester drive                                                                                        -       -       -       -
          files maintenance
5.2.7.6   Perform computer hard drive                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          file maintenance
5.2.7.7   AN/USM-601 CTS Test
          Station
          TR: TO 33D7-13-86-1
5.2.7.7.1    Inspect and repair                                                                                           -       -       -       -

5.2.7.7.2      Perform operational                                                                                        -       -       -       -
               checkout
5.2.7.8     Inspect and maintain                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            AN/ALR-46/69 Test Program
            Set)
            TR: TO 33D7-50-1545-1




                                                                   59                                                              Attachment 5
                                      B-52H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
5.2.7.9   Inspect and maintain                                                                                           -       -       -       -
          AN/ALQ- 122 Test Program
          Set (TPS)
          TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect. 8
5.2.7.10 Inspect and maintain                                                                                            -       -       -       -
          AN/ALQ-155(V) Test
          Program Set (TPS)
          TR: TO 33D7-50-1221-1
5.2.7.11 Inspect and maintain                                                                                            -       -       -       -
          AN/ALQ-172(V)2 Test
          Program Set (TPS)
          TR: TO 33D7-50-1976-1
5.2.8 Radar Warning Receiver
        (RWR)
        TR: TO 12P3-2ALR69-98-1
5.2.8.1   Perform operational checkout                                                                                   -       -       -       -

5.2.8.2     Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

5.2.8.3     Reprogram                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

5.2.8.4     Perform LRU repairs                                                                                          -       -       -       -

5.2.8.5     RWR Mock-up

5.2.8.5.1     Perform operational                                                                                        -       -       -       -
              checkout
5.2.8.5.2     Inspect                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

5.2.8.5.3     Troubleshoot                                                                                               -       -       -       -

5.2.8.5.4     Repair                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

5.2.9  Inspect and maintain OF-180                                                                                       -       -       -       -
       Aircraft Adapter Group (AAG)
       TR: TO 33D7-50-1267-1
5.2.10 Inspect and maintain OF-208                                                                                       -       -       -       -
       Aircraft Adapter Group (AAG)
       TR: TO 33D7-50-1623-1




                                                                  60                                                              Attachment 5
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 6
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
6.1 C-141 ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
     TR: 1C-141B-2-05JG-00-1,
     1C-141B2-23JG-40-1, 1C-141B-2-
     27JG-00-1
6.1.1 General

6.1.1.1     Ensure aircraft is safe for         *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            maintenance
6.1.1.2     Apply external power                *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.1.1.3     Apply hydraulic power                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.1.1.4     Operate flaps                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.1.1.5     Operate spoilers                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.1.1.6     Operate Interphone System                                                                                        -       -       -       -

6.1.1.7   Secure/Unsecure/Inspect                                                                                            -       -       -       -
          Doppler Radome
6.2 AN/ALE-47 CMDS
     TR: 1C-141B-2-99JG-20-1-5, 1C-
     141B-2-99JG-20-1-6, 1C-141B-2-
     99FI-00-1-3, 1C-141B-6
6.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.2.2     Perform operational check             *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.2.3     Troubleshoot                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.2.4   Remove and Install
        Components
6.2.4.1   Programmer                            *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.2.4.2     Control Display Unit                *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.2.4.3     Indicator/Arm Control Panel         *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.2.4.4     Remote Dispense Switches            *                                                                            -       -       -       -




                                                                      61                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.2.4.5     Sequencer Switches               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.2.4.6     Dispenser Assemblies             *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.2.4.7     Safety Switches                  *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.2.4.8     Bus Coupler                      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.2.4.9   Load crew academic training                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          TR: 11A-1-33, AFM 91-201
6.2.4.10 Load crew practical training                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          TR: 11A-1-33, AFM 91-201
6.2.4.11 Upload/download flares and                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          chaff
          TR: 11A-1-33
6.3 AN/AAR-47 MISSILE
      WARNING SYSTEM (MWS)
      TR: 1C-141B-2-99JG-20-1-7, 1C-
      141B-2-99FI-00-1-3, 1C-141B-6
6.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.3.2     Perform operational check          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.3.3     Troubleshoot                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.3.4     Reprogram MWS                      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.3.5   Remove and install
        components
6.3.5.1   Control Indicator                  *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.3.5.2     Computer Processor               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.3.5.3     Auto Dispense Control Panel      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.3.5.4     Optical Sensor Converter         *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.3.5.5     Remote Threat Indicators         *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.3.5.6     Lamp Driver                      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.4 OFF EQUIPMENT

6.4.1     Functionally Check                                                                                              -       -       -       -
          Countermeasure Dispensing
          System
6.4.2     Functionally Check MWS LRUs                                                                                     -       -       -       -



                                                                   62                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
        C-130E/H, HC-130N/P
            and EC-130E
6.5 C-130E/H, HC-130N/P and EC-
     130E ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
     TR: Applicable aircraft series TOs
6.5.1 General

6.5.1.1     Ensure Aircraft is safe for      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            maintenance

6.5.1.2     Apply external power             *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.5.1.3     Operate Interphone System                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.5.1.4     Apply Hydraulic Power                                                                                         -       -       -       -

6.5.1.5     Operate Flaps                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.6 AN/ALE-40 CMDS
     TR: 1C-130H-2-99JG-30-1,
     33DA112-16-1, other applicable
     directives
6.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.6.2     Perform CMDS operational           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          checkout
6.6.3     Troubleshoot System                                                                                             -       -       -       -

6.6.4   Remove and install
        components
6.6.4.1   Control Display Unit (CDU)                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.6.4.2     Programmer                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.6.4.3     Sequencer Switch                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.6.4.4     EMI Filter                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.6.4.5     Dispenser                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.6.4.6     Remote Dispense Switches                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.6.4.7     Manual Dispense                                                                                               -       -       -       -
            Switch/CDU Lamp Test
            Control
6.6.4.8     Program Select/Inverter                                                                                       -       -       -       -
            Assembly


                                                                   63                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.6.5   Load crew academic training                                                                                     -       -       -       -
        TR: 1A-1-33, 1C-130A-33-1-
        2CL- 9, AFM 91-201
6.6.6 Load crew practical training                                                                                      -       -       -       -
        TR: 11A-1-33, 1C-130A-33-1-
        2CL-9, AFM 91-201
6.6.7 Upload/download flares and                                                                                        -       -       -       -
        chaff
        TR: 11A-1-33, 1C-130A-33-1-
        2CL-9
6.7 AN/ALE- 47 CMDS
     TR: 1C-130H-2-99JG-30-2,
     33DA112-16-1, other applicable
     directives
6.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               B       B       -       -

6.7.2     Reprogram AN/ALE-47 CMDS         *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

6.7.3     Perform CMDS operational         *                                                                           2b       -       -       -
          checkout
6.7.4     Troubleshoot System                                                                                          2b       -       -       -

6.7.5   Remove and install
        components
6.7.5.1   Control Display Unit (CDU)                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.7.5.2     Programmer                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

6.7.5.3     Sequencers                                                                                                 2b       -       -       -

6.7.5.4     Safety Switches                                                                                             -       -       -       -

6.7.5.5     Dispensers                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

6.7.5.6     Remote Dispense Switches                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.7.5.7     Manual Dispense                                                                                             -       -       -       -
            Switch/CDU Lamp Test
            Control
6.7.5.8     Program Select/Inverter                                                                                     -       -       -       -
            Assembly
6.7.5.9     MWS to CMDS signal                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            inverter
6.7.5.10    AN/ALE-47 Control Panel                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.7.6     Load crew academic training                                                                                   -       -       -       -




                                                                 64                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.7.7     Load crew practical training                                                                                   -       -       -       -
          TR: 11A-1-33, 1C-130A-33-1-
          2CL-9, AFM 91-201
6.7.8     Upload/download flares and                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          chaff
6.8 AN/AAR-47 MISSILE
     WARNING SYSTEM
     TR: 1C-130H-2-99JG-10-1, 1C-
     130-2-16, 33DA112-16-1, other
     applicable directives
6.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                B       B       -       -

6.8.2     Reprogram                         *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

6.8.3     Perform operational check         *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

6.8.4     Troubleshoot system                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.8.5   Remove and install
        components
6.8.5.1   Optical Sensor Converter                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.8.5.2     Control Indicator                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.8.5.3     Computer Processor                                                                                          2b       -       -       -

6.8.5.4     Auto Select Control/Threat                                                                                   -       -       -       -
            Indicator Inverter
6.8.5.5     MWS Lamp Driver                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.8.5.6     Remote Threat Indicators                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.8.6     Clean Optical Sensors                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.9 AN/ALR-69 RWR
     TR: 1C-130H-2-99JG-10-5-1
6.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                B       B       -       -

6.9.2     Reprogram                         *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

6.9.3     Perform operational checkout      *                                                                           2b       -       -       -

6.9.4     Troubleshoot system                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.9.5     Perform 360-Day Cable                                                                                          -       -       -       -
          Insertion Loss Test
6.9.6     Remove and install
          components

                                                                  65                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.9.6.1      E/J Band Pre-Amplifiers                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.9.6.2      C/D Band Amplifier                                                                                           -       -       -       -

6.9.6.3      FSRS Receiver                                                                                                -       -       -       -

6.9.6.4      FSRS Receiver Controller                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.9.6.5      Signal Processor                                                                                            2b       -       -       -

6.9.6.6      Indicator Control Unit                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.9.6.7      Azimuth Indicator                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.9.6.8      Antenna Switch                                                                                               -       -       -       -

6.9.6.9      System Antennas                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.9.6.10     Blanking Assembly                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.9.6.11     Bus Coupler                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

6.9.6.12     Audio Control Panel                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.10 OFF-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
     TR: 00-25-234, 1-1A-15
6.10.1 Reprogramming support
        equipment
        TR: Applicable system and
        equipment technical
        orders/directives
6.10.1.1 Access and download                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          software/files from the BBS
6.10.1.2 Configure software                  *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.10.2 Off-Equipment

6.10.2.1  Functionally Check/Align
          ALR-69 LRUs
6.10.2.1.1 E/J Band Pre-Amplifiers                                                                                        -       -       -       -

6.10.2.1.2     C/D Band Amplifier                                                                                         -       -       -       -

6.10.2.1.3     FSRS Receiver                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.10.2.1.4     FSRS Receiver Controller                                                                                   -       -       -       -



                                                                   66                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.10.2.1.5    Signal Processor                                                                                             -       -       -       -

6.10.2.1.6    Indicator Control Unit                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.10.2.1.7    Azimuth Indicator                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.10.2.1.8    Antenna Switch                                                                                               -       -       -       -

6.10.2.1.9    System Antennas                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.10.2.1.10 Blanking Assembly                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.10.2.2     CMDS LRUs

6.10.2.2.1    Control Display Unit                                                                                         -       -       -       -
              (CDU)
6.10.2.2.2    Programmer                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

6.10.2.2.3    Sequencer                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.10.2.2.4    Safety Switch                                                                                                -       -       -       -

6.10.2.2.5    Dispenser                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.10.2.2.6    Remote Dispense Switches                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.10.2.2.7  Manual Dispense                                                                                                -       -       -       -
            Switch/CDU Lamp Test
            Control
6.10.2.2.8 Program Select/Inverter                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            Assembly
6.10.2.2.9 MWS to CMDS signal                                                                                              -       -       -       -
            inverter
6.10.2.2.10 ALE 47 Control panel                                                                                           -       -       -       -

6.10.2.3     MWS LRUs

6.10.2.3.1    Optical Sensor Converter                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.10.2.3.2    Control Indicator                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.10.2.3.3    Computer Processor                                                                                           -       -       -       -

6.10.2.3.4    Auto Select Control/Threat                                                                                   -       -       -       -
              Indicator Inverter
6.10.2.3.5    MWS Lamp Driver                                                                                              -       -       -       -



                                                                    67                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.10.2.4 Maintain Magazine                                                                                                  -       -       -       -
         Assemblies
         TR: 12P3-2ALE-102
6.11 ALQ-157 INFRARED
     TRANSMITTER SYSTEM
     TR: TO C-130H-2-99JG-10-2
6.11.1 Remove and Install components                                                                                        -       -       -       -

6.11.2 Perform operational check               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.11.3 Troubleshoot system                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

6.12 AN/AAQ-24 (V) 13 LARGE
     AIRCRAFT INFRARED
     COUNTERMEASURES
     SYSTEM (LAIRCM)
6.12.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

6.12.2 Reprogram System                        *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.12.3 Perform Operational Check               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.12.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

6.12.5 Remove and Install
        Components
6.12.5.1 Processor                                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.12.5.2     Sensors                                                                                                        -       -       -       -

6.12.5.3     Control Indicator Unit (CIU)                                                                                   -       -       -       -

6.12.5.4  Small Laser Transmitter                                                                                           -       -       -       -
          Assembly (SLTA)
6.12.5.5 Perform Transmitter                                                                                                -       -       -       -
          Preventive Maintenance
6.12.5.5.1 Change Filters                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

6.12.5.5.2     Change Humidity Indicator                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.12.5.5.3     Change Dessicators                                                                                           -       -       -       -

6.12.5.5.4     Clean Optical Window                                                                                         -       -       -       -

6.12.5.5.5     Use Support Equipment                                                                                        -       -       -       -

6.12.5.5.6     Operate MEON                                                                                                 -       -       -       -



                                                                     68                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.12.5.5.7 Operate Portaloader                                                                                             -       -       -       -


   C-130J, EC-130J, and WC-130J
6.13 C-130J, EC-130J, WC-130J ON-
     EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
     TR: Applicable Aircraft Series
     TOs
6.13.1 General

6.13.1.1     Ensure Aircraft is Safe for                                                                                   -       -       -       -
             Maintenance
6.13.1.2     Apply External Power                                                                                          -       -       -       -
             Utilizing OFP
6.13.1.3     Apply External Power                                                                                          -       -       -       -
             Utilizing OMP
6.13.1.4     Operate Interphone System                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.13.1.5     Operate Flaps                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.13.1.6 Operate Defensive Systems                                                                                         -       -       -       -
         Control Panel
6.13.1.7 Use of Portable Maintenance                                                                                       -       -       -       -
         Aid (PMA)
6.13.1.8 Operate Enhanced GPS/INS                                                                                          -       -       -       -
         (EGIs)
6.13.1.9 Operate Head-Up Display                                                                                           -       -       -       -
         (HUD)
6.13.2 Multiplex Bus Systems

6.13.2.1     Purpose                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.13.2.2     Functional Theory of                                                                                          -       -       -       -
             Operation
6.13.2.3     Troubleshoot                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

6.13.2.4     Remove and Install

6.13.2.4.1     Bus Connectors                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.13.2.4.2     Bus Terminators                                                                                             -       -       -       -

6.13.2.4.3     Bus Couplers                                                                                                -       -       -       -

6.14 AN/ALR-56M ADVANCED
     RADAR WARNING
     RECEIVER (RWR)
     TR: TO 1C-130J-2-93JG-00-1

                                                                    69                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.14.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                               -       -       -       -

6.14.2 Perform System Operational           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       Checkout
6.14.3 Perform Interface Blanking Unit                                                                                   -       -       -       -
       Operational Checkout
6.14.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                               -       -       -       -

6.14.5 Reprogram System                     *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.14.6 Remove/Install System
        Components
6.14.6.1 Analysis Processor                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.14.6.2    Superhet Receiver                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.14.6.3    Superhet Controller                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.14.6.4    C/D Bank Receiver and                                                                                        -       -       -       -
            Power Supply
6.14.6.5    E/J Spiral Antenna                                                                                           -       -       -       -

6.14.6.6    Omni Antenna                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.14.6.7    Interface Blanking Unit                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.14.6.8    DF Receiver                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

6.15 AN/ALE-47 COUNTER
     MEASURES DISPENSING
     SYSTEM (CMDS)
     TR: TO 1C-130J-2-99JG-10-1
6.15.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                               -       -       -       -

6.15.2 Perform System Operational           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       Checkout

6.15.3 Troubleshoot System                                                                                               -       -       -       -

6.15.4 Reprogram System                     *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.15.5 Remove and Install
        Components
6.15.5.1 Programmer                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.15.5.2    Remove Dispense Switches                                                                                     -       -       -       -




                                                                  70                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.15.5.3    Control Wheel Chaff/Flare                                                                                   -       -       -       -
            Switches (Yoke Assembly)
6.15.5.4    Dispenser                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

6.15.5.5    Sequencer Switches                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.15.5.6    Safety Switches                                                                                             -       -       -       -

6.15.6 Perform AN/ALE-47 CMDS                                                                                           -       -       -       -
       MWS Interface test
6.15.7 Load Crew Academic Training                                                                                      -       -       -       -
       TR: 11A-1-33, AFM 91-201,
       1C-130J-33-1-2CL-1
6.15.8 Load Crew Practical Training                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       TR: 11A-1-33, AFM 91-201,
       1C-30J-33-1-2CL-1
6.15.9 Upload/Download Chaff/Flares                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       TR: 11A-1-33
6.16 AN/AAR-47 MISSILE
     WARNING SYSTEM (MWS)
     TR: TO 1C-130J-2-93JG-00-1
6.16.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.16.2 Perform System Operational          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       Checkout
6.16.3 Troubleshoot System                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.16.4 Reprogram System                    *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.16.5 Optical Sensor Cleaning                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.16.6 Remove/Install components

6.16.6.1    Processor Computer                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.16.6.2    Sensor Assembly                                                                                             -       -       -       -

6.17 OFF-EQUIPMENT

6.17.1 Reprogramming Support
        Equipment
        TR: Applicable System and
        Equipment Technical
        Orders/Directives
6.17.1.1 Access and Download                                                                                            -       -       -       -
          Software/Files
6.17.1.2 Configure Software                                                                                             -       -       -       -
          TR: 12P3-2ALE-102


                                                                 71                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      2A533C
                                       2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                       Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
                                          A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                     3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                        Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                      Level Level         Level
                                          5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                      CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                         Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials


               C-5
6.18 C-5 ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
6.18.1 General

6.18.1.1 Ensure Aircraft is safe for      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
         maintenance
6.18.1.2 Apply external power             *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.18.1.3 Operate Interphone System                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.18.1.4 Apply hydraulic power                                                                                         -       -       -       -

6.18.1.5 Operate flaps                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.19 AN/ALE-47 CMDS

6.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

6.19.2 Perform operational check          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.19.3 Troubleshoot system                                                                                             -       -       -       -

6.19.4 Remove and install components

6.19.4.1 Programmer                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.19.4.2 Control Display Unit                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.19.4.3 Master Safety Switch                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.19.4.4 Remote Dispense Switches                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.19.4.5 Sequencer Switches                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.19.4.6 Dispenser Assemblies                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.19.4.7 Safety Switches                                                                                               -       -       -       -

6.19.4.8 Bus Coupler                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

6.19.5 Reprogram CMDS                     *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.19.6 Load crew academic training                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.19.7 Load crew practical training                                                                                    -       -       -       -


                                                                72                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.19.8 Upload/download flares and                                                                                         -       -       -       -
        chaff
6.20 AN/AAR-47 MISSILE
     WARNING SYSTEM
      TR: 00-25-234, 1-1A-15
6.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -       -       -       -

6.20.2 Perform operational check             *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.20.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.20.4 Remove and install
        components
6.20.4.1 Control Indicator                                                                                                -       -       -       -

6.20.4.2    Computer Processor                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.20.4.3    Auto Dispense Control Panel                                                                                   -       -       -       -

6.20.4.4    Optical Sensor Converter                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.20.4.5    Dual Channel Repeaters                                                                                        -       -       -       -

6.20.4.6    Remote Threat Indicators                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.20.4.7    Lamp Driver                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

6.20.4.8    Reprogram MWS                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.21 OFF-EQUIPMENT

6.21.1 Functionally Check CMDS LRUs                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.21.2 Functionally Check MWS LRUs                                                                                        -       -       -       -

6.21.3 Maintain Magazine Assemblies                                                                                       -       -       -       -


               C-17
6.22 C-17 ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
6.22.1 General

6.22.1.1 Ensure Aircraft is safe for         *                                                                            -       -       -       -
         maintenance
6.22.1.2 Apply external power                *                                                                            -       -       -       -



                                                                   73                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.22.1.3 Operate Interphone System                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.22.1.4 Apply hydraulic power                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.22.1.5 Operate flaps                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.22.1.6 Operate Cargo Bay Doors                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.22.2 AN/ALE-47 CMDS

6.22.2.1     Theory of operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.22.2.2     Perform operational check         *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.22.2.3     Troubleshoot system                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.22.2.4  Remove and install
          components
6.22.2.4.1 Programmer                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.22.2.4.2     Control Display Unit                                                                                         -       -       -       -

6.22.2.4.3     Arm/Manual Dispense                                                                                          -       -       -       -
               Panel
6.22.2.4.4     Sequencer Switches                                                                                           -       -       -       -

6.22.2.4.5     Dispenser Assemblies                                                                                         -       -       -       -

6.22.2.4.6     Safety Switches                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.22.2.4.7     Bus Coupler                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

6.22.2.5     Reprogram CMDS                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.22.2.6     Load Crew Academic                                                                                             -       -       -       -
             Training
6.22.2.7     Load Crew Practical Training                                                                                   -       -       -       -

6.22.2.8 Upload/Download Flares and                                                                                         -       -       -       -
         Chaff
6.23 AN/AAR-47 MISSILE
     WARNING SYSTEM/LASER
6.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

6.23.2 Perform operational checks              *                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.23.3 Troubleshoot system                                                                                                  -       -       -       -


                                                                     74                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.23.4 Remove and install components

6.23.4.1 Control Indicator                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.23.4.2 Computer Processor                                                                                                -       -       -       -

6.23.4.3 Optical Sensor Converter                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.23.4.4 Dual Channel Repeaters                                                                                            -       -       -       -

6.23.4.5 Remote Threat Indicators                                                                                          -       -       -       -

6.23.4.6 Lamp Driver                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.23.5 Reprogram MWS                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.24 AN/AAQ-24 (V)13 LARGE
      AIRCRAFT INFRARED
      COUNTERMEASURES
      SYSTEM (LAIRCM)
6.24.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.24.2 Reprogram System                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.24.3 Perform Operational Check                                                                                           -       -       -       -

6.24.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

6.24.5 Remove and Install
        Components
6.24.5.1 Processor                                                                                                         -       -       -       -

6.24.5.2    Sensors                                                                                                        -       -       -       -

6.24.5.3    Control Indicator Unit (CIU)                                                                                   -       -       -       -

6.24.5.4    Small Laser Transmitter                                                                                        -       -       -       -
            Assembly (SLTA)
6.24.5.5    Repeater                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.24.6 Perform Transmitter
        Preventive Maintenance
6.24.6.1 Change Filters                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.24.6.2    Change Humidity Indicator                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.24.6.3    Change Dessicators                                                                                             -       -       -       -


                                                                    75                                                              Attachment 6
                  C-5/C-17/C-130E/H/J/HC-130N/P/C-141 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                     2A533C
                                      2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                      Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)
                                         A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                    3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                       Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                     Level Level         Level
                                         5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                     CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                        Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
6.24.6.4    Clean Optical Window                                                                                      -       -       -       -

6.24.6.5    Use Support Equipment                                                                                     -       -       -       -

6.24.6.6    Operate MEON                                                                                              -       -       -       -

6.24.6.7    Operate Portaloader                                                                                       -       -       -       -

6.24.6.8    Operate SLTA Jack                                                                                         -       -       -       -

6.25 OFF EQUIPMENT

6.25.1 Functionally Check CMDS                                                                                        -       -       -       -

6.25.2 Functionally Check MWS LRUs                                                                                    -       -       -       -

6.25.3 Maintain Magazine Assemblies                                                                                   -       -       -       -




                                                               76                                                              Attachment 6
                                HH-60G/MH-60G TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 7
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
7.1 H-60 ON EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
7.1.1 General

7.1.1.1     Ensure Aircraft is safe for         *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            maintenance
7.1.1.2     Apply external power                *                                                                            -       -       -       -

7.1.1.3     Operate interphone system                                                                                        -       -       -       -

7.1.1.4     Perform Visual Inspections                                                                                       -       -       -       -

7.1.1.5     Secure/unsecure panels                                                                                           -       -       -       -

7.1.1.6     Use H60 wiring diagrams                                                                                          -       -       -       -

7.2 AN/ALE-47 CMDS
     TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-12, 1H-60(H)G-
     2- 13, 33DA112-16-1
7.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

7.2.2     Reprogram AN/ALE-47 CMDS              *                                                                            -       -       -       -

7.2.3     Perform operational checkout          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

7.2.4     Troubleshoot system                                                                                                -       -       -       -

7.2.5   Remove and install
        components
7.2.5.1   Sequencer Switch                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

7.2.5.2     Interface Box                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

7.2.5.3     EMI Filters                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

7.2.5.4     Dispenser Control Panel                                                                                          -       -       -       -

7.2.5.5     Programmer                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

7.2.5.6     Cockpit Control Unit                                                                                             -       -       -       -



                                                                      77                                                              Attachment 7
                                HH-60G/MH-60G TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
7.2.5.7     Ready/Armed Indicator                                                                                        -       -       -       -

7.2.5.8     Remote Dispense Switch                                                                                       -       -       -       -

7.2.5.9     Dispenser Dimmer/Light                                                                                       -       -       -       -
            Control
7.2.5.10    Dispenser Assembly                                                                                           -       -       -       -

7.2.5.11    Mount Assembly                                                                                               -       -       -       -

7.3 AN/AAR-47/AAR-47(V)2 MWS
     TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-12, 33DA112-
     16-1
7.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -       -       -       -
       TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-11
7.3.2 Reprogram system                      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

7.3.3     Perform operational checkout      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

7.3.4     Troubleshoot system                                                                                            -       -       -       -

7.3.5   Remove and install
        components
7.3.5.1   Central Processor                                                                                              -       -       -       -

7.3.5.2     Sensors/Optical Sensor                                                                                       -       -       -       -
            Converters

7.3.5.3     Control Indicator Panel                                                                                      -       -       -       -

7.3.5.4     Interface box                                                                                                -       -       -       -

7.3.6  Clean Sensor/Optical Sensor                                                                                       -       -       -       -
       Converters
       TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-12
7.4 APR-39A RWR
     TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-11, 12, 13
7.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -       -       -       -
       TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-11
7.4.2 Reprogram system                      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

7.4.3     Perform operational checkout      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-12
7.4.4     Troubleshoot system                                                                                            -       -       -       -
          TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-12
7.4.5     Remove and install
          components
          TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-13

                                                                  78                                                              Attachment 7
                               HH-60G/MH-60G TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      2A533C
                                       2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                       Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
                                          A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                     3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                        Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                      Level Level         Level
                                          5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                      CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                         Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
7.4.5.1     Processor                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

7.4.5.2     Coaxial Lines                                                                                              -       -       -       -

7.4.5.3     Antennas                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

7.4.5.4     Receiver                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

7.4.5.5     Indicator                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

7.5 APR-39B(V)2 RWR
     TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-13
7.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -
       TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-11
7.5.2 Reprogram System                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

7.5.3   Perform Operational Checkout                                                                                   -       -       -       -
        TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-12
7.5.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                              -       -       -       -
        TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-12
7.5.5 Remove and Install
        Components
        TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-13
7.5.5.1   Radar Data Processor                                                                                         -       -       -       -

7.5.5.2     User Data Module                                                                                           -       -       -       -

7.5.5.3     Spiral Antennas                                                                                            -       -       -       -

7.5.5.4     Bus Coupler                                                                                                -       -       -       -

7.5.5.5     Receiver                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

7.5.5.6     Indicator                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

7.5.5.7     Control Panel                                                                                              -       -       -       -

7.6 AN/ALQ-144A INFRARED
     JAMMER SYSTEM
     TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-11, 12, 13
7.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -
       TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-11
7.6.2 Perform operational checkout        *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-12
7.6.3     Troubleshoot system                                                                                          -       -       -       -
          TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-13



                                                                79                                                              Attachment 7
                               HH-60G/MH-60G TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
7.6.4   Remove and install
        components
        TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-13
7.6.4.1   Transmitter                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

7.6.4.2     Operator control unit                                                                                        -       -       -       -

7.6.5     Load/Verify/Reprogram             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          Transmitter
7.6.6     Clean Covert Window Assembly                                                                                   -       -       -       -

7.7 HH-60G/MH-60G OFF-
      EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
      TR: 00-25-234, 1-1A-15
7.7.1 Perform Visual Inspection of                                                                                       -       -       -       -
        LRUs
7.7.2 Verify AN/ALQ-144A Time                                                                                            -       -       -       -
        Change Item Replacement
        Schedules
        TR: TM 11-5865-200-34-1
7.7.3 Replacement of Time Change
        Items
        TR: TM 11-5865-200-12
7.7.3.1    Source                                                                                                        -       -       -       -

7.7.3.2     High Speed Bearing                                                                                           -       -       -       -
            Assembly
7.7.3.3     High Speed Motor                                                                                             -       -       -       -

7.7.3.4     Low Speed Motor                                                                                              -       -       -       -

7.7.3.5     Lower Speed Bearing                                                                                          -       -       -       -

7.7.3.6     Upper Speed Bearing                                                                                          -       -       -       -

7.7.4     Clean ALQ-144                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

7.7.5   Accomplish Minimum
        Performance checks
7.7.5.1   Radar Warning System                                                                                           -       -       -       -

7.7.5.2      Infrared Transmitters                                                                                       -       -       -       -
             TR: TM 11-5865-200-34-1
7.7.6     Isolate Defective Infrared                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          Transmitter Subassemblies
7.7.7     Remove/Install Infrared                                                                                        -       -       -       -
          Transmitter Subassemblies



                                                                  80                                                              Attachment 7
                              HH-60G/MH-60G TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
7.8 REPROGRAM SUPPORT
     EQUIPMENT
7.8.1 Access and download                  *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       software/files from the
       MSEWDDS
7.8.2 Configure Software                   *                                                                            -       -       -       -

7.9 RADAR SIGNAL TEST
     ADAPTER MX-9848A/APR-39
     (V)
     TR: TM 11-6940-213-12, TM 11-
     6940-213-30-1
7.9.1 Understand Theory Of Operation                                                                                    -       -       -       -

7.9.2    Power Distribution                                                                                             -       -       -       -

7.9.3    Troubleshooting                                                                                                -       -       -       -

7.9.4    Repair                                                                                                         -       -       -       -

7.10 RADAR SIGNAL SIMULATOR
     SM-674A/UPM
     TR: TM 11-9640-2132-12, TM
     11-6940-213-30-1
7.10.1 Understand Theory of Operation                                                                                   -       -       -       -

7.10.2 Troubleshooting                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

7.10.3 Maintenance Test Procedures                                                                                      -       -       -       -

7.10.4 Repair                                                                                                           -       -       -       -




                                                                 81                                                              Attachment 7
                                          E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 8
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
8.1 E-3 ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
     TR: 1E-3A-2-1-1
8.1.1 Apply external power                      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.1.2     SDU-34 cooling air monitor            *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          alarm operation
8.1.3     Ensure aircraft safe for              *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          maintenance
8.1.4     Apply Hydraulic Power                                                                                              -       -       -       -

8.1.5     Operate Flaps                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

8.2 HAVE SIREN INFRARED
     SELF-DEFENSE SYSTEM
     (QRC 81-101)
     TR: 1E-3A-2-99-1, 1E-3A-2-99-1-
     1, 1E-3A-2-24-1
8.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -       A       -       -

8.2.2     Operational check transmitter         *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.2.3     System activation check               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.2.4     Troubleshoot system                                                                                                -       -       -       -

8.2.5     Perform system adjustments            *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.2.6     Remove and Install

8.2.6.1     Operator Control Unit (OCU)         *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.2.6.2     Transmitter Unit (TU)               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.2.6.3   Electronic Control Unit               *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          (ECU)
8.2.6.4   Electronic Load Control Unit                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          (ELCU)
8.3 ELECTRONIC SUPPORT
      MEASURES (AN/AYR-2)
      TR: 1E-3A-2-93-3, 1E-3A-43-1-1


                                                                      82                                                              Attachment 8
                                            E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
8.3.1     Theory of operation                                                                                                -       A       -       -

8.3.2     Operational check/Initiate            *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          LRUD (Line replaceable unit
          diagnostics)
8.3.3     Inspect antenna RF Processor                    *                                                                  -       -       -       -
          (ARFP) radome
8.3.4     Troubleshoot System

8.3.4.1     Identify LRUD display codes         *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.3.4.2 Operate Keyboard Debugger               *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        (KBD)
8.3.4.3 Download operation control              *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        program (OCP/AOCP)
8.3.5 Load System EEPROMS

8.3.5.1     Interface Unit (IU)                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.3.5.2     Computer Processor (CP)             *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.3.5.3     Airframe ROM (AFROM)                *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.3.6     Remove and Install

8.3.6.1     Antenna R.F. Processor              *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            (ARFP)
8.3.6.2     Intermediate frequency switch       *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            (IFS)
8.3.6.3     Intermediate frequency              *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            processor (IFP)
8.3.6.4     Frequency synthesizer (FS)          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.3.6.5     Local oscillator distribution                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            unit (LODU)
8.3.6.6     Interface unit (IU)                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.3.6.7     Computer processor (CP)             *                                                                            -       -       -       -

8.3.6.8     System power supply (SPS)                                                                                        -       -       -       -

8.3.6.9     AC/DC converter                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

8.3.6.10    Battery                                                                                                          -       -       -       -

8.3.6.11    Airframe ROM (AFROM)                                                                                             -       -       -       -



                                                                      83                                                              Attachment 8
                                      E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      2A533C
                                       2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                       Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
                                          A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                     3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                        Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                      Level Level         Level
                                          5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                      CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                         Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
8.3.6.12    Control unit                                                                                               -       -       -       -

8.4 THEORY AND
     PERFORMANCE OF THE
     HAVE SIREN IR
     TRANSMITTER SYSTEM
8.4.1 Transmitter Unit (TU)                                                                                            -       -       -       -
       P/N4018830G2
8.4.2 Electronic Control Unit P/N                                                                                      -       -       -       -
       4018036G1
8.4.3 Operator Control Unit (OCU)                                                                                      -       -       -       -
       P/N401829G2
8.5 ISOLATE, REPAIR,
     REMOVE/INSTALL
     DEFECTIVE SUBASSEMBLIES
     OF THE HAVE SIREN
     TRANSMITTER SYSTEM
8.5.1 TU                                                                                                               -       -       -       -
       TR: 12P3-5QRC81-1 Ch 7
8.5.2 ECU                                                                                                              -       -       -       -
       TR: 12P3-5QRC81-1 Ch 7
8.5.3 OCU                                                                                                              -       -       -       -
       TR: 12P3-5QRC81-1 Ch 7
8.6 ALIGNMENT OF HAVE SIREN
     LRUs
8.6.1 TU                                                                                                               -       -       -       -
       TR: 12P3-5QRC81-1 Ch 7
8.6.2 ECU                                                                                                              -       -       -       -
       TR: 12P3-5QRC81-1 Ch 7
8.6.3 OCU                                                                                                              -       -       -       -
       TR: 12P3-5QRC81-1 Ch 7
8.7 RADIOMETER P/N 001-00695-
     001
8.7.1 Perform Operational Check and                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       Calibration of the Radiometer
8.8 QRC 81-01 MULTIFUNCTION
     TEST METER (MTM)
8.8.1 Perform Verification Test of                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       the MTM
8.8.2 Alignment of R1 and R2                                                                                           -       -       -       -

8.8.3    Calibrate the MTM                                                                                             -       -       -       -

8.9 ISOLATE MALFUNCTION TO
    SHOP REPLACEABLE UNITS
    (SRUs) SUBASSEMBLIES AND
    COMPONENTS



                                                                84                                                              Attachment 8
                                       E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
8.9.1    J-6183 Interface Unit (IYU)                                                                                    -       -       -       -

8.9.2    CP-2232 Computer Processor                                                                                     -       -       -       -

8.9.3    SA-2701 Switch Filter (IFS)                                                                                    -       -       -       -

8.9.4    PP-8247 Storage Power Supply                                                                                   -       -       -       -
         (Battery Box)
8.9.5    MX-11577 Radio Frequency                                                                                       -       -       -       -
         Power Divider (LODU)
8.9.6    MM-1101 Memory Unit                                                                                            -       -       -       -
         (AFROM)
8.9.7    PP-8389 Power Supply                                                                                           -       -       -       -

8.9.8    O-1875 Frequency Synthesizer                                                                                   -       -       -       -

8.9.9    Interface Processor (IFP)                                                                                      -       -       -       -

8.10 REMOVE, INSTALL AND
     REPAIR SRUs
     SUBASSEMBLIES AND
     COMPONENTS
8.10.1 J-6183 Interface Unit (IYU)                                                                                      -       -       -       -

8.10.2 CP-2232 Computer Processor                                                                                       -       -       -       -

8.10.3 SA-2701 Switch Filter (IFS)                                                                                      -       -       -       -

8.10.4 PP-8247 Storage Power Supply                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       (Battery Box)
8.10.5 MX-11577 Radio Frequency                                                                                         -       -       -       -
       Power Divider (LODU)
8.10.6 PP-8389 Power Supply                                                                                             -       -       -       -

8.10.7 CU-2543 Interface Processor                                                                                      -       -       -       -
       (IFP)
8.10.8 O-1875 Frequency Synthesizer                                                                                     -       -       -       -

8.10.9 CU-2543 Interface Processor                                                                                      -       -       -       -
       (IFP)
8.11 PERFORM VISUAL
     INSPECTION OF ESM SRUs
     TR: 12S2-2AYR-2




                                                                 85                                                              Attachment 8
                                      EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 9
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
9.1 GENERAL MAINTENANCE
      TR: Applicable EC-130H
      Technical Data
9.1.1 Practice safety when working              *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        with RF equipment
9.1.2 Document and review entries in            *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        aircraft forms
9.1.3 Apply and remove power thru               *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        front end receptacle
9.1.4 Apply and remove power thru               *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        special systems receptacle
9.1.5 Operate special systems air
        conditioner
9.1.5.1    Apply Power Thru Special             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
           Systems Air Conditioner
           Power Receptacle
9.1.6 Perform special systems                   *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        initialization and shut down
        procedures
9.1.7 Perform level 1 and level 2 bits          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

9.1.8    Inspect and clean fiber optic                                                                                       -       -       -       -
         cables and connectors
9.1.9    Remove and install chassis             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
         mounted units
9.1.10   Remove and install rack                *                                                                            -       -       -       -
         mounted units
9.1.11   Remove and install low and mid         *                                                                            -       -       -       -
         band transmitter power supplies
9.1.12   Apply Hydraulic Power                                                                                               -       -       -       -

9.1.13 Operate Flaps                                                                                                         -       -       -       -

9.2 SPECIAL SYSTEMS
     ANTENNAS
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.2.1 Identify and locate all major             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.2.2 Perform operational checkout                                                                                           -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot



                                                                      86                                                              Attachment 9
                                    EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
9.2.3     Remove and Install

9.2.3.1   Low band transmit antenna                                                                                          -       -       -       -
          outer elements upper quadrant
9.2.3.2   Low band transmit antenna                                                                                          -       -       -       -
          outer elements lower quadrant
9.2.3.3   Horizontal stabilizer leading                                                                                      -       -       -       -
          edge
9.2.3.4   Low band transmit antenna                                                                                          -       -       -       -
          inner elements
9.2.3.5   Low band transmit antenna                                                                                          -       -       -       -
          coax feeder cable
9.2.3.6   Low band transmit antenna                                                                                          -       -       -       -
          transformer
9.2.3.7   Low band transmit antenna
          feedboom
9.2.3.7.1    Lower guy rope                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

9.2.3.7.2     Upper guy rope                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

9.2.3.8     Low band receive antennas                                                                                        -       -       -       -

9.2.3.9     Low band receive antenna                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            filters and splitters
9.2.3.10    Mid band receive antennas                                                                                        -       -       -       -

9.2.3.11    Mid band transmit antennas                                                                                       -       -       -       -

9.2.3.12    Mid band transmit antenna                                                                                        -       -       -       -
            assembly
9.2.3.13    High band HB (HB1/HB2)                                                                                           -       -       -       -
            receive nose radome antennas
9.2.3.14    High band system HB1                                                                                             -       -       -       -
            transmit antennas
9.2.3.15    High band system HB1                                                                                             -       -       -       -
            transmit power
            combiner/dividers
9.2.3.16    High band system HB2                                                                                             -       -       -       -
            transmit log periodic antennas
9.2.3.17    High band system HB2                                                                                             -       -       -       -
            transmit sectoral horn
            antennas
9.2.3.18    High band system HB3                                                                                             -       -       -       -
            transmit antennas
9.2.3.19    High band system receive                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            nose radome antennas
9.2.3.20    High band system receive                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            wingtip antennas

                                                                      87                                                              Attachment 9
                                   EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
9.2.3.21    SILO DF system antennas                                                                                      -       -       -       -

9.2.3.22    TIBS antenna                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

9.2.3.23    Tech station antenna                                                                                         -       -       -       -

9.2.4  Identify and locate RF                                                                                            -       -       -       -
       transmission lines
9.3 RF DISTRIBUTION
     SUBSYSTEM (RFD)
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -       -       -       -

9.3.2  Perform operational checkout                                                                                      -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.3.3 Inspect, clean, remove, replace,                                                                                   -       -       -       -
       and repair coaxial cables
9.4 TECHNICIAN STATION
     SUBSYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -       -       -       -

9.4.2  Identify and locate major            *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.4.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                       -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.4.4 Perform technician station disk                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       load procedure
9.5 COMPUTER SUBSYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -       -       -       -

9.5.2  Identify and locate major            *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.5.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                       -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.5.4 Perform Compass Call software                                                                                      -       -       -       -
       disk load and disk format
       procedures
9.6 HUMAN-MACHINE
     INTERFACE (HMI)
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -       -       -       -



                                                                  88                                                              Attachment 9
                                   EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      2A533C
                                       2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                       Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
                                          A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                     3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                        Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                      Level Level         Level
                                          5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                      CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                         Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
9.6.2  Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.6.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.6.4 Removal and Install forcestick                                                                                   -       -       -       -
       and keyboard assemblies
9.7 COMPASS CALL SOFTWARE
     (CCS)
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.7.1 Theory of operation major CCS                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       components
9.7.2 Perform basic CCS keyset                                                                                         -       -       -       -
       commands and arguments
9.8 ACQUISITION SUBSYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

9.8.2  Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.8.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.9 ANALYSIS SUBSYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

9.9.2  Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.9.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.10 EXCITER SUBSYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.10.2 Identify and locate the major      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.10.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.11 DF/SILO SUBSYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.11.2 Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components


                                                                89                                                              Attachment 9
                                  EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      2A533C
                                       2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                       Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
                                          A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                     3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                        Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                      Level Level         Level
                                          5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                      CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                         Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
9.11.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.12 DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.12.2 Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.12.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.13 LOW BAND POWER
     AMPLIFIER SUBSYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.13.2 Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.13.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                    -       -       -       -

9.13.4 Perform meter alignments                                                                                        -       -       -       -

9.13.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

9.14 MID BAND POWER
     AMPLIFIER SUBSYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.14.2 Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.14.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                    -       -       -       -

9.14.4 Perform meter alignments                                                                                        -       -       -       -

9.14.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

9.15 HIGH BAND SUBSYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.15.2 Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.15.3 Remove and install components                                                                                   -       -       -       -



                                                                90                                                              Attachment 9
                                 EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      2A533C
                                       2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                       Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
                                          A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                     3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                        Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                      Level Level         Level
                                          5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                      CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                         Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
9.15.4 Perform operational checkout                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.16 HIGH BAND ONE
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.16.2 Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.16.3 Remove and install components                                                                                   -       -       -       -

9.16.4 Perform operational checkout                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.17 HIGH BAND TWO
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.17.2 Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.17.3 Remove and install components                                                                                   -       -       -       -

9.17.4 Perform operational checkout                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.18 HIGH BAND THREE
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.18.2 Identify and locate major          *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       components
9.18.3 Remove and install components                                                                                   -       -       -       -

9.18.4 Perform operational checkout                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.19 TACTICAL INFORMATION
     BROADCAST SYSTEM
     TR: Applicable EC-130H
     Technical Data
9.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.19.2 Identify and locate major                                                                                       -       -       -       -
       components
9.19.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                    -       -       -       -
       and troubleshoot
9.20 SELF PROTECTION SYSTEMS




                                                                91                                                              Attachment 9
                                    EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
9.20.1 AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set (CMDS)
        TR: Applicable EC-130H
        Technical Data, 33DS112-16-1
        and Other Applicable Directives
9.20.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

9.20.1.2     Reprogram AN/ALE-47                                                                                          -       -       -       -
             CMDS
9.20.1.3     Perform CMDS Operational                                                                                     -       -       -       -
             Checkout
9.20.1.4     Troubleshoot to LRUs                                                                                         -       -       -       -

9.20.1.5     Remove and Install

9.20.1.5.1     Programmer                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

9.20.1.5.2     Sequencers                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

9.20.1.5.3     Safety Switches                                                                                            -       -       -       -

9.20.1.5.4     Dispensers                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

9.20.1.5.5     Remote Dispenser                                                                                           -       -       -       -
               Switches
9.20.1.5.6     Interface Control Panel                                                                                    -       -       -       -

9.20.1.5.7     Control and Display Unit                                                                                   -       -       -       -

9.20.2 An/AAR-54 Missile Warning
        System (MWS)
        TR: Applicable EC-130H
        Technical Data
9.20.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

9.20.2.2     Perform Operational Check                                                                                    -       -       -       -

9.20.2.3     Troubleshoot to LRUs                                                                                         -       -       -       -

9.20.2.4  Remove and Install
          Components
9.20.2.4.1 Optical Sensor                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

9.20.2.4.2     Processor                                                                                                  -       -       -       -

9.20.2.4.3     Control Indicator Unit                                                                                     -       -       -       -




                                                                   92                                                              Attachment 9
                                      EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
9.20.2.5    Clean Optical Sensors                                                                                        -       -       -       -

9.20.3 Off Equipment

9.20.3.1    Reprogram Support                                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Equipment
9.20.3.2    Access and download                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            software/files from the
            MSEWDDS
9.20.3.3    Configure System                                                                                             -       -       -       -

9.21 MISCELLANEOUS TASKS

9.21.1 Perform Home Station Check on                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       Special Systems
       TR: Applicable EC-130H
       Technical Data
9.21.2 Perform Ohms Check on Special                                                                                     -       -       -       -
       Systems Transmit Antennas
       TR: Applicable EC-130H
       Technical Data
9.21.3 Remove and install circuit card                                                                                   -       -       -       -
       assemblies
       TR: Applicable EC-130H
       Technical Data
9.21.4 Remove and install equipment                                                                                      -       -       -       -
       racks
       TR: Applicable EC-130H
       Technical Data
9.21.5 Rig Lower guy rope                                                                                                -       -       -       -
       TR: Applicable EC-130H
       Technical Data
9.21.6 Rig upper guy rope                                                                                                -       -       -       -
       TR: Applicable EC-130H
       Technical Data
9.21.7 Up/ Download Flares                                                                                               -       -       -       -

9.22 MOBILE SUPPORT FACILITY
     (MSF)
9.22.1 Operate/Maintain                                                                                                  -       -       -       -
       TR: LTM 3202 and TO 0M1-5-
       1, 10M1-6-2-11
9.22.2 Theory of operation                                                                                               -       -       -       -
       TR: LTM 3202
9.22.3 Perform enclosure                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
       installation/setup procedures
       TR: TO 10M1-5-3-1 and 10M1-
       6-2-11



                                                                  93                                                              Attachment 9
                                 EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
9.22.4 Perform preparation for                                                                                           -       -       -       -
        shipment and storage
        TR: LTM 3202
9.22.5 Perform power transformer unit                                                                                    -       -       -       -
        startup/shutdown
        TR: LTM 3202
9.22.6 MSF rack/console                                                                                                  -       -       -       -
        Operate/maintain
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.7 Perform power up/power down                                                                                       -       -       -       -
        sequence
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.8 Theory of operation MSF                                                                                           -       -       -       -
        rack/console subsystem power
        distribution
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.9 Theory of operation MSF                                                                                           -       -       -       -
        rack/console system interface
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.10 Perform bootup/shutdown                                                                                          -       -       -       -
        procedures for SUN workstation
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.11 Perform bootup/shutdown                                                                                          -       -       -       -
        procedures for MSF Software
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.12 Perform thermal printer paper                                                                                    -       -       -       -
        loading Procedure
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.13 Troubleshoot power system                                                                                        -       -       -       -
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.14 Perform system checkout                                                                                          -       -       -       -
        procedures
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.15 Perform LBU fiber optics                                                                                         -       -       -       -
        checkout
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.16 Remove/replace rack/console                                                                                      -       -       -       -
        equipment/chassis equipment
        TR: LTM 3200-1
9.22.17 Operate/maintain MSF specific                                                                                    -       -       -       -
        equipment
        TR: LTM 3205, 3200-1, printer
        commercial manual
9.22.18 Troubleshoot SUN workstation                                                                                     -       -       -       -
        TR: LTM 3205
9.22.19 Perform MSF printer                                                                                              -       -       -       -
        configuration
        TR: Commercial manual



                                                                  94                                                              Attachment 9
                                 EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
9.22.20 Remove/replace SUN                                                                                               -       -       -       -
        workstation shop replaceable
        units (SRUs)
        TR: LTM 3205
9.22.21 Accomplish preventive                                                                                            -       -       -       -
        maintenance inspection
        TR: LTM 3004WC-1
9.23 SPECIAL EMITTER ARRAY
     (SPEAR) SUBSYSTEM
     TR: LTM 1EC-130H(CC)-2-14
     CHAPTER 14, 1EC-130H(CC)-2-
     14CL-1, AFI 33-211 and
     Applicable Commercial Manuals
9.23.1 Understand SPEAR subsystem                                                                                        -       -       -       -
        Theory of Operation
9.23.2 Identify and locate all major                                                                                     -       -       -       -
        components
9.23.3 Perform operational checkout                                                                                      -       -       -       -
        and troubleshooting of the
        SPEAR subsystem
9.23.4 Perform SPEAR pylon upload                                                                                        -       -       -       -
        and download procedures
9.23.5 Perform SPEAR pod upload and                                                                                      -       -       -       -
        download procedures
9.23.6 Perform Time Frequency                                                                                            -       -       -       -
        Standard (TFS) oscillator
        characterization
9.23.7 Understand SPEAR                                                                                                  -       -       -       -
        cryptographic key handling,
        loading, and zeroizing
        procedures
9.23.8 Perform battery removal and                                                                                       -       -       -       -
        replacement procedures for TFS
9.23.9 Perform battery removal and                                                                                       -       -       -       -
        replacement procedures for GRX
9.23.10 Perform battery removal and                                                                                      -       -       -       -
        replacement procedures for GSG
9.23.11 Operation of 4100B trailer                                                                                       -       -       -       -




                                                                  95                                                            Attachment 10
                                   RC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 10
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Due to the diverse nature of maintenance responsibilities across the RC-135 fleet, and ongoing program spiral
           development, additional 5-level core tasks (validated by MXG/CC or AIA/LGMM ) are to be identified on
           AF Form 797.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 4: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
10.1 RC-135 ELECTRONIC
     SUPPORT MEASURES (ESM)
     TR: AFP 51-45 and Applicable AF
     Directives
10.1.1 Theory of ESM

10.1.1.1  Signal Intelligence
          (SIGNINT) Theory and
          Principles
10.1.1.1.1 Electronic Intelligence                                                                                      -       B       -       -
             (ELINT)
10.1.1.1.2 Communication                                                                                                -       B       -       -
             Intelligence (COMINT)
10.1.1.2 Measurement and Signature                                                                                      -       -       -       -
          Intelligence (MASINT)
10.1.1.3 Photo Intelligence                                                                                             -       -       -       -
          (PHOTINT)
10.1.1.4 Telemetry Intelligence                                                                                         -       -       -       -
          (TELINT)
10.1.2 Radio Detection and Ranging
        (RADAR) Principles
        TR: AFP 51-45
10.1.2.1 RADAR Range, Azmith &                                                                                          -       -       -       -
          Elevation
10.1.2.2 RADAR Transmission &                                                                                           -       -       -       -
          Reception Principles
10.1.2.3 RADAR Components                                                                                               -       -       -       -

10.1.2.4    RADAR Wave Propagation                                                                                      -       -       -       -

10.1.2.5  RADAR Types and
          Principles
          TR: AFP 51-45
10.1.2.5.1 Indirect Threat

10.1.2.5.1.1      Early Warning RADAR                                                                                   -       -       -       -

10.1.2.5.1.2      Acquisition RADAR                                                                                     -       -       -       -




                                                                 96                                                            Attachment 10
                                      RC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
10.1.2.5.1.3      Height-Finder RADAR                                                                                     -       -       -       -

10.1.2.5.1.4     Indirect Threat Scan                                                                                     -       -       -       -
                 Types
10.1.2.5.2     Direct Threat

10.1.2.5.2.1      Airborne Interceptor                                                                                    -       -       -       -
                  RADAR
10.1.2.5.2.2      Track While Scan                                                                                        -       -       -       -
                  RADAR
10.1.2.5.2.3      Monopulse RADAR                                                                                         -       -       -       -

10.1.2.5.2.4     Direct Threat Scan                                                                                       -       -       -       -
                 Types
10.1.2.5.3     Non-Threat

10.1.2.5.3.1      Airborne Navigation                                                                                     -       -       -       -
                  RADAR
10.1.2.5.3.2      Synthetic Aperture                                                                                      -       -       -       -
                  RADAR
10.1.2.5.3.3      Space Surveillance                                                                                      -       -       -       -
                  RADAR
10.1.2.5.3.4      Airport Surveillance                                                                                    -       -       -       -
                  RADAR (ASR)
10.1.2.5.3.5      Doppler RADAR                                                                                           -       -       -       -

10.1.3 ESM Basic Receiver System
        Components and Theory
        TR: AFP 51-45
10.1.3.1 Receiver

10.1.3.1.1     Radio Frequency (RF)                                                                                       -       -       -       -
               Distribution
10.1.3.1.2     RF Antenna Types and                                                                                       -       -       -       -
               Characteristics
10.1.3.1.3     RF Amplifiers, Couplers,                                                                                   -       -       -       -
               and Switches
10.1.3.1.4     Tuning                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

10.1.3.1.5     Demodulation                                                                                               -       -       -       -

10.1.3.1.6     IF/Video/Audion                                                                                            -       -       -       -
               Distribution
10.1.3.2     RF Direction Finding (DF)




                                                                   97                                                            Attachment 10
                                     RC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
10.1.3.2.1     Spinning DF Theory                                                                                            -       -       -       -

10.1.3.2.2     Time Difference of Arrival                                                                                    -       -       -       -
               (TODA) DF Theory
10.1.3.3     Pulse Analysis

10.1.3.3.1     Pulse/Signal                                                                                                  -       -       -       -
               Characteristics
10.1.3.3.2     Modulation Characteristics                                                                                    -       -       -       -

10.1.3.4     Recorders

10.1.3.4.1 Magnetic Media Recording                                                                                          -       -       -       -
           Systems
10.1.3.4.2 User Defined Media                                                                                                -       -       -       -
           Recording Systems
10.1.4 ESM Missions & Operations

10.1.4.1     Rivet Joint                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

10.1.4.2     Combat Sent                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

10.1.4.3     Cobra Ball                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

10.2 COMMON RC-135 SIGNIT

10.2.1 GMT Time & Navigation
        Distribution Systems
        TR: ETM-EIN 161 / ETM-
        RC135V/W2 / ETM-RC-135U-
        2A
10.2.1.1 EIN-161 Time/Nav Operation                                                                                          -       -       -       -

10.2.1.2     Time/Nav Reference                                                                                              -       -       -       -
             Distribution
10.2.1.3     Reference Signal Distribution                                                                                   -       -       -       -

10.2.2 Aircraft Local Area Networks
        (LANs)
        TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 /
        ETM-RC-135U-2A
        ES(2000/2001)- 0925-SERIES
10.2.2.1 LAN Theory of Operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

10.2.2.2     LAN HUBs                                                                                                        -       -       -       -




                                                                      98                                                            Attachment 10
                                        RC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A           B             C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training     Training      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start       Complete      Initials   Initials   Initials
10.2.2.3    LAN Switches/Routers                                                                                           -       -       -       -
            Principles
10.2.2.4    Digital Data Distribution                                                                                      -       -       -       -

10.2.3 Operator Work Station (OWS)
        TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 /
        ETM-RC-135U-2A ES
        (2000/2001)- 0925-SERIES
10.2.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                               -       -       -       -

10.2.3.2    Types of Configuration and                                                                                     -       -       -       -
            Devices
10.2.3.3    Signal Flow                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

10.2.3.4    Perform Basic OWS                                                                                              -       -       -       -
            Functions
10.2.3.5    Perform Windows Proficiency                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            Functions
10.2.3.6    Perform Graphics Functions                                                                                     -       -       -       -

10.2.3.7    Configure Processor                                                                                            -       -       -       -

10.2.3.8    Isolate and Correct                                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Malfunctions
10.2.4      Perform Maintenance Test
            Functions
            TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 /
            ETM-RC-135U-2A ES
            (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
10.2.4.1    Interpret MP Operations                                                                                        -       -       -       -

10.2.4.2  Perform Test Equipment                                                                                           -       -       -       -
          Operations
10.2.4.3 Isolate and Correct                                                                                               -       -       -       -
          Malfunctions
10.3 Ensure Aircraft Is Safe                  *                                                                            -       -       -       -
     For Maintenance
10.4 Apply External Power                     *                                                                            -       -       -       -




                                                                    99                                                            Attachment 10
                                       AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 11
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
11.1 AC-130H ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
11.1.1 Ensure Aircraft is Safe for              *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        Maintenance
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)H-2-05JG-
        00-1, 1C-130(A)H-2-00GE-00-1
11.1.2 Apply/remove external electrical         *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        power
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)H-2-05JG-
        00-1
11.1.3 AN/ALR-69 Radar Warning
        Receiver
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99GS-
        00-1, 1C-130(A)H-2-99JG-10-2,
        1C-130(A)H-2-99FI-10-1, 1C-
        130(A)H-2-16
11.1.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

11.1.3.2    Remove & Install                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
            Components
11.1.3.3    Perform Operational Check           *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.3.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                              -       -       -       -

11.1.3.5   Perform USM-464 360 Day                                                                                           -       -       -       -
           End-to-End Check
           TR: 12P3-2ALR-69-188-1
11.1.3.6 Reprogram System                       *                                                                            -       -       -       -
           TR: 12P3-2ALR-69-188-1
11.1.4 AN/ALE-40 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99GS-
        00-1, 1C-130(A)H-2-99JG-30-1,
        -30-1-2, 1C-130(A)H-2-99FI-30-
        1, 1C-130A(H)-2-16
11.1.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

11.1.4.2    Remove & Install                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
            Components
11.1.4.3    Perform Operational Check           *                                                                            -       -       -       -




                                                                      100                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.1.4.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.1.5 AN/AAR-44A Infrared
        Warning Receiver
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99GS-
        00-1, 1C-130(A)H-2-99JG-10-3,
        1C-130(A)H-2-99FI-10-1, 1C-
        130A(H)-2-16
11.1.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.5.2    Remove & Install               *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.1.5.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.5.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.1.5.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.5.6    Perform ALE-40 Interface                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            check
11.1.5.7    Perform Purge/Fill                                                                                          -       -       -       -

11.1.6 AN/APR-46 Panoramic
        Receiver System
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99GS-
        00-1, 1C-130(A)H-2-99JG-10-4,
        1C-130(A)H-2-99FI-10-1,
        1C-130(A)H-2-16
11.1.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.6.2    Remove & Install                                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.1.6.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.6.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.1.6.5   Perform 360 Day Receiver                                                                                     -       -       -       -
           Sensitivity Test
11.1.7 AN/ALQ-172 (V)3
        Countermeasures System
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99GS-
        00-1, 1C-130(A)H-2-99JG-20-2-
        1, 1C-130(A)H-2-99JG-20-2-2,
        1C-130(A)H-2-99JG-20-2-3,
        1C-130(A)H-2-99FI-20-2, 1C-
        130A)H-2-16
11.1.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -



                                                                 101                                                           Attachment 11
                                     AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.1.7.2    Remove & Install                                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.1.7.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.7.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.1.7.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.7.6    Perform Waveguide                                                                                           -       -       -       -
            Pressurization Check

11.1.7.7    Perform USM-464 360 Day                                                                                     -       -       -       -
            End-to-End Check

11.1.8 QRC 84-05 Receiver System
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99GS-
        00-1, TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99JG-
        10-5, TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99FI-
        10-1, TO 1C-130(A)H-2-16
11.1.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.8.2    Remove & Install                                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.1.8.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.8.4    Troubleshoot system                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.1.9 AN/AAQ-24(V) 6 Directional
        Infrared Countermeasures
        System (DIRCM)
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99GS-
        00-1, TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99GS-
        10-7, TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99FI-
        10-7, TO 1C-130(A)H-2-16
11.1.9.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.9.2    Remove and Install             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.1.9.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.9.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.1.9.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.9.6    Perform Transmitter                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            Preventive Maintenance




                                                                 102                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.1.10 AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99GS-
        00-1, TO 1C-130(A)H-2-99JG-
        30-1-1, -30-1-2, TO 1C-
        130(A)H-2-99FI-30-1, TO 1C-
        130(A)H-2-16
11.1.10.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.1.10.2 Remove and Install                                                                                              -       -       -       -
          Components
11.1.10.3 Perform Operational Check          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.1.10.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.1.10.5 Reprogram System                   *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2 AC-130U ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE

11.2.1 Ensure Aircraft is safe for           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        Maintenance
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)U-2-2
11.2.2 Apply/remove external electrical      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        power
11.2.3 Apply/Remove Air Conditioning                                                                                      -       -       -       -
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)U-2-05JG-
        00-1
11.2.4 AN/ALR-69 Radar Warning
        Receiver
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93GS-
        00-1, TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93JG-
        10-3, TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93FI-
        10-3, TO 1C-130(A)U-2-16
11.2.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

11.2.4.2    Remove and Install                                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.2.4.3    Perform Operational Check        *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.4.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.2.4.5    Reprogram System                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.4.6    Perform USM-464 360 Day                                                                                       -       -       -       -
            End-to-End Check
            TR: 1C-130(A)U-2-16 or
            12P3-2-ALR-69-188-1


                                                                   103                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.2.5 AN/ALE-40 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93GS-
        10-1, TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93JG-
        20-1, TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93JG-
        20-2, TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93FI-
        20-1, TO 1C-130(A)U-2-16
11.2.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.5.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components
11.2.5.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.5.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.2.6 AN/AAR-44A Infrared
        Warning Receiver
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93GS-
        00-1, TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93JG-
        10-2, TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93FI-
        10-2, TO 1C-130(A)U-2-16
11.2.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.6.2    Remove and Install             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.2.6.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.6.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.2.6.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.6.6    Perform ALE-40 Interface                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            check
11.2.6.7    Perform Purge/Fill                                                                                          -       -       -       -

11.2.7 AN/APR-46 Panoramic
        Receiver System
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93GS-
        00-1, 1C-130(A)U-2-93JG-30-1,
        1C-130(A)U-2-93FI-30-1, 1C-
        130(A)U-2-16
11.2.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.7.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components
11.2.7.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.7.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -


                                                                 104                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.2.7.5  Perform 360 Day Receiver                                                                                      -       -       -       -
          Sensitivity Test
11.2.8 AN/ALQ-172 (V)1
        Countermeasures System
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93GS-
        00-1, 1C-130(A)U-2-93JG-10-4,
        1C-130(A)U-2-93JG-10-5, 1C-
        130(A)U-2-93FI-10-4, 1C-
        130(A)U-2-93FI-10-5, 1C-
        130(A)U-2-16
11.2.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.8.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components
11.2.8.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.8.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.2.8.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.8.6    Perform Waveguide                                                                                           -       -       -       -
            Pressurization Check
11.2.8.7    Perform USM-464 360 Day                                                                                     -       -       -       -
            End-to-End Check

11.2.9  AN/AAQ-24 (V)6 Directional
        Infrared Countermeasures
        System (DIRCM)
        TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93GS-00-1,
        1C-130(A)U-2-93JG-10-6, 1C-
        130(A)U-2-16
11.2.9.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.9.2    Remove and Install             *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.9.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.9.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.2.9.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.10 AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: TO 1C-130(A)U-2-93GS-
        00-1, 1C-130(A)U-2-93JG-20-1,
        1C-130(A)U-2-93JG-20-2, 1C-
        130(A)U-2-93FI-20-1,
        1C-130(A)U-2-16


                                                                 105                                                           Attachment 11
                                    AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.2.10.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.2.10.2 Remove and Install                                                                                              -       -       -       -
          Components
11.2.10.3 Perform Operational Check          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.2.10.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.2.10.5 Reprogram System                   *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3 MC-130E ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
11.3.1 Ensure Aircraft is Safe for                                                                                        -       -       -       -
        Maintenance
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-05JG-
        00-1, 1C-130(M)H-2-00GE-00-1
11.3.2 Apply/remove external electrical      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        power
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-05JG-
        00-1
11.3.3 AN/ALR-69 RWR
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)E-2-99JG-
        10-2, 1C-130(M)E-2-99FI-10-1,
        1C-130(M)E-2-99GS-00-1, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-14
11.3.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

11.3.3.2  Remove and Install
          components
11.3.3.2.1 E/J Band Pre-Amplifiers                                                                                        -       -       -       -

11.3.3.2.2    C/D Band Amplifier                                                                                          -       -       -       -

11.3.3.2.3    FSRS Receiver                                                                                               -       -       -       -

11.3.3.2.4    FSRS Receiver Controller                                                                                    -       -       -       -

11.3.3.2.5    Processor                      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.3.2.6    Threat Display Unit                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.3.3.2.7    Azimuth Indicator                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.3.3.2.8    Antenna Switch                                                                                              -       -       -       -

11.3.3.2.9    System antennas                                                                                             -       -       -       -




                                                                   106                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.3.3.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.3.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.3.3.5  Perform USM-464 360 Day                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          End-to-End Check
          TR: 12P3-ALR69-188-1
11.3.3.6 Reprogram System                  *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          TR: 12P3-ALR69-188-1
11.3.4 AN/ALE-40 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)E-2-99JG-
        30-1, 1C-130(M)E-2-99FI-30-1,
        1C-130(M)E-2-99GS-00-1, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-14
11.3.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.4.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components

11.3.4.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.4.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.3.5 AN/ALQ-172 (V)1
        Countermeasures System
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)E-2-99JG-
        10-3, 1C-130(M)E-2-99FI-10-1,
        1C-130(M)E-2-99GS-00-1 1C-
        130(M)E-2-14
11.3.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.5.2    Remove and Install             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.3.5.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.5.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.3.5.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.6  AN/AAR-44A Infrared
        Warning Receiver (IRWR)
        TO 1C-130(M)E-2-99JG-10-3,
        1C-130(M)E-2-99FI-10-1, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-99GS-00-1, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-14
11.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -



                                                                 107                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.3.6.2    Remove and Install              *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.3.6.3    Perform Operational Check       *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.6.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                          -       -       -       -

11.3.6.5    Reprogram System                *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.6.6    Perform AN/ALE-40
            Interface test
11.3.6.7    Perform Purge/Fill

11.3.7 AN/APR-46 Receiver
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)E-2-99JG-
        10-4, 1C-130(M)E-2-99FI-10-1,
        1C-130(M)E-2-99GS-00-1, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-14
11.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.3.7.2    Remove and Install                                                                                           -       -       -       -
            Components
11.3.7.3    Perform Operational Check       *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.7.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                          -       -       -       -

11.3.7.5   Perform 360 Day Receiver                                                                                      -       -       -       -
           Sensitivity Test
11.3.8 AN/ALQ-172(V)1 System
        testing using the AN/USM-464
        test set
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)E-2-14, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-99-GS-00-1
11.3.8.1 Perform TPS Interface                                                                                           -       -       -       -
           procedures
11.3.8.2 Perform Antenna Sweep test                                                                                      -       -       -       -

11.3.8.3    Perform Go-Chain                                                                                             -       -       -       -
            Performance test
11.3.8.4    Perform Selective Go-Chain                                                                                   -       -       -       -
            testing
11.3.8.5    Troubleshoot System                                                                                          -       -       -       -

11.3.9 QRC 84-05 Radar Warning
       Receiver
       TR: TO 1C-130(M)E-2-99JG-
       10-5, 1C-130(M)E-2-99FI-10-1,
       1C-130(M)E-2-99GS-00-1 1C-
       130(M)E-2-14


                                                                  108                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.3.9.1    Theory of operation                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.3.9.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components
11.3.9.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.9.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.3.10 AN/ALQ-196 Automatic
        System
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)E-2-99JG-
        20-3, 1C-130(M)E-2-99FI-20-1,
        1C-130(M)E-2-99GS-00-1, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-14
11.3.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.3.10.2 Remove and Install                                                                                            -       -       -       -
          Components
11.3.10.3 Perform Operational Check        *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.10.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.3.10.5 Reprogram System                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.11 AN/ALQ-196 System testing
        using AN/USM-464
11.3.11.1 Perform Go-Chain                                                                                              -       -       -       -
          Performance testing
          TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ196-8-1,
          1C-130(M)E-2-14
11.3.11.2 Perform Selective Go-Chain                                                                                    -       -       -       -
          testing
11.3.11.3 Perform DOA testing                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.3.11.4 Perform Antenna Coupler                                                                                       -       -       -       -
           Normalization
11.3.12 Nitrogen Pressurization
        Systems, ALQ-172, ALQ-196
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)E-2-99JG-
        20-2-1, 1C-130(M)E-99JG-20-2-
        2, 1C-130(M)E-2-99JG-20-3,
        1C-130(M)E-2-99FI-20-1, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-99GS-00-1
11.3.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.3.12.2 Remove and Install                                                                                            -       -       -       -
          Components



                                                                 109                                                           Attachment 11
                                  AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.3.12.3 Perform Operational Check          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.12.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.3.13 AN/AAQ-24 (V)6 Directional
        Infrared Countermeasures
        System (DIRCM)
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)E-2-99GS-
        00-1, 1C-130(M)E-2-99JG-20-3,
        1C-130(M)E-2-99FI-20-1, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-14
11.3.13.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.3.13.2 Remove and Install                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          Components
11.3.13.3 Perform Operational Check          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.13.4 Reprogram System                   *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.13.5 Troubleshoot System                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.3.13.6 Perform Transmitter                                                                                             -       -       -       -
           Preventive Maintenance
11.3.14 AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: 1C-130(M)E-2-99GS-00-
        1, 1C-130(M)E-2-14, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-99JG-30-1, 1C-
        130(M)E-2-99FI-30-1
11.3.14.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.3.14.2 Remove and Install                                                                                              -       -       -       -
          Components
11.3.14.3 Perform Operational Check          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.3.14.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.3.14.5 Reprogram System                   *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4 MC-130H ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
11.4.1 Ensure Aircraft is safe for           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       maintenance
       TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-05JG-
       00-1 1C-130(M)H-2-00GE-00-1
11.4.2 Apply/remove external electrical      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
       power
       TR: TO 1C-130H-2-05JG-00-1


                                                                   110                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.4.3 Apply/Remove Air Conditioning                                                                                    -       -       -       -
        TR: TO 1C-130H-2-05JG-00-1
11.4.4 AN/ALR-69 Radar Warning
        Receiver
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-99JG-
        10-2, 1C-130(M)H-2-99FI-10-1,
        1C-130(M)H-2-14, 1C-
        130(M)H-2-99GS-00-1
11.4.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.4.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components
11.4.4.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.4.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.4.4.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.4.6  Perform USM-464 360 Day                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          End-to-End Check
          TR: 12P3-2ALR69-188-1
11.4.5 AN/ALE-40 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-99JG-
        30-1, 1C-130(M)H-2-99FI-30-1,
        1C-130(M)H-2-14, 1C-
        130(M)H-2-99GS-00-1
11.4.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.5.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components
11.4.5.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.5.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.4.6 AN/AAR-44A Infrared
        Warning Receiver
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-99JG-
        10-3, 1C-130(M)H-2-99FI-10-
        1, 1C130(M)H-2-14, 1C-
        130(M)H-2-99GS-00-1
11.4.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.6.2    Remove and Install             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.4.6.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.6.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -


                                                                 111                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.4.6.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.6.6    Perform ALE-40 Interface                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            check
11.4.6.7    Perform Purge/Fill                                                                                          -       -       -       -

11.4.7 AN/APR-46 Panoramic
        Receiver System
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-99JG-
        10-4, 1C-130(M)H-2-99FI-10-1,
        1C-130(M)H-2-14, 1C-
        130(M)H-2-99GS-00-1
11.4.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.7.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components

11.4.7.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.7.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.4.7.5  Perform 360 Day Receiver                                                                                      -       -       -       -
          Sensitivity Test
11.4.8 AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-99JG-
        10-1, 1C-130(M)H-2-99FI-30-1,
        1C-130(M)H-2-14, 1C-
        130(M)H-2-99GS-00-1
11.4.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.8.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components
11.4.8.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.8.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.4.8.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.9 AN/ALQ-172 (V)1
        Countermeasures System
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-99JG-
        20-2-1, 1C-130(M)H-2-99JG-
        20-2-2, 1C-130(M)H-2-99FI-20-
        2-1, 1C-130(M)H-2-14, 1C-
        130(M)H-2-99GS-00-1
11.4.9.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -




                                                                 112                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.4.9.2    Remove and Install                                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.4.9.3    Perform Operational Check        *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.9.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.4.9.5    Reprogram System                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.9.6   Perform Waveguide                                                                                              -       -       -       -
           Pressurization Check
           TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-8,
           1C-130(M)H-2-34JG-40-4-1
11.4.9.7 Perform USM-464 360 Day                                                                                          -       -       -       -
           End-to-End Check
11.4.10 AN/AAQ-24 (V)6 Directional
         System (DIRCM)
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)H-2-99JG-
        10-7, 1C-130(M)H-2-99FI-10-1,
        1C-130(M)H-2-14, 1C-130-
        (M)H-2-99GS-00-1
11.4.10.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.4.10.2 Remove and Install                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          Components
11.4.10.3 Perform Operational Check          *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.10.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                             -       -       -       -

11.4.10.5 Reprogram System                   *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.4.10.6 Perform Transmitter                                                                                             -       -       -       -
          Preventive Maintenance
11.5 MC-130P ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
11.5.1 Ensure Aircraft is safe for           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        maintenance
        TR: TO 1C-130H-2-05JG-00-1
        1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1
11.5.2 Apply/remove external electrical      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        power
        TR: TO 1C-130H-2-05JG-00-1,
        1C-130H-2-00GE-00-1
11.5.3 AN/ALR-69 Radar Warning
        Receiver
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)P-2-99JG-
        10-2, 1C-130(M)P-2-99FI-10-1,
        1C-130(H)H-2-11, 1C-130(M)P-
        2-99GS-00-1


                                                                   113                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.5.3.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.5.3.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components
11.5.3.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.5.3.4    Perform USM-639/USM-464                                                                                     -       -       -       -
            360 Day End- to-End Check
11.5.3.5    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.5.3.6  Reprogram System                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 12P3-2ALR69-168-1
          or 12P3-2ALR-69-188-1
11.5.4 AN/ALE-40 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)P-2-99JG-
        30-1, 1C-130(M)P-2-99FI-30-1,
        1C-130(H)H-2-11, 1C-130(M)P-
        2-99GS-00-1
11.5.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.5.4.2    Remove and Install
            Components
11.5.4.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.5.4.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.5.5 AN/AAR-44A Infrared
        Warning Receiver
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)P-2-99JG-
        10-3, 1C-130(M)P-2-99FI-10-1,
        1C-130(H)H-2-11, 1C-130(M)P-
        2-99GS-00-1
11.5.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.5.5.2    Remove and Install             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.5.5.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.5.5.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.5.5.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.5.5.6    Perform ALE-40 Interface                                                                                    -       -       -       -
            check

11.5.5.7    Perform Purge/Fill                                                                                          -       -       -       -



                                                                 114                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.5.6 AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: TO 1C-130(M)P-2-99JG-
        30-1, 1C-130(M)P-2-99FI-30-1,
        1C-130(H)H-2-11, 1C-130(M)P-
        2-99GS-00-1
11.5.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

11.5.6.2    Remove and Install                                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.5.6.3    Perform Operational Check                                                                                     -       -       -       -

11.5.6.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.5.6.5    Reprogram System                                                                                              -       -       -       -

11.6 MH-53J/M ON-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE
11.6.1 Ensure Aircraft is safe for           *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        maintenance
        TR: TO 1H-53(M)J-2-1
11.6.2 Apply/remove external electrical      *                                                                            -       -       -       -
        power
        TR: TO 1H-53(M)J-2-1
11.6.3 AN/ALR-69 Radar Warning
        Receiver
        TR: TO 1H-53(M)J-2-9
11.6.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

11.6.3.2    Remove and Install
            Components

11.6.3.3    Perform Operational Check        *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.3.4    Troubleshoot System

11.6.3.5    Reprogram System                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.3.6  Perform USM-639 360 Day                                                                                         -       -       -       -
          End-to-End Check
          TR: TO 12P3-2ALR69-168-2
11.6.4 AN/ALE-40 Countermeasures
        Dispensing Set
        TR: TO 1H-53(M)J-2-9
11.6.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                              -       -       -       -

11.6.4.2    Remove and Install
            Components


                                                                   115                                                           Attachment 11
                                     AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.6.4.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.4.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.6.5 AN/ALQ-162
        Countermeasures Set
        TR: TO 1H-53(M)J-2-9
11.6.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.5.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components
11.6.5.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.5.4    Perform USM-639 360 Day                                                                                     -       -       -       -
            End-to-End Check
11.6.5.5    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.6.5.6  Reprogram System                                                                                              -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ-162-8-2
11.6.6 AN/ALQ-157 Infrared
        Transmitter System
        TR: TO 1H-53(M)J-2-9
11.6.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            B       B       -       -

11.6.6.2    Remove and Install             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.6.6.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.6.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.6.7 AN/AAR-47 Missile Warning
        System
        TR: TO 1H-53(M)J-2-9
11.6.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.7.2    Remove and Install             *                                                                            -       -       -       -
            Components
11.6.7.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.7.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.6.7.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.7.6    Perform 360 Day System                                                                                      -       -       -       -
            Degradation Check




                                                                 116                                                           Attachment 11
                                   AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.6.8 Integrated Defensive Avionics
        System/Multi-mission
        Advanced Tactical Terminal
        (IDAS/MATT)
        TR: TO 1H-53(M)J-2-9
11.6.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.8.2    Remove and Install                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            Components
11.6.8.3    Perform Operational Check      *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.8.4    Troubleshoot System                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.6.8.5    Reprogram System               *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.9 Perform MH-53                                                                                                    -       -       -       -
        Teardown/Buildup as Team
        Member
        TR: Local Checklist
11.6.10 AN/AAQ-24 (V)18 Directional
        Infrared Countermeasures
        System (DIRCM)
        TR: TO 1H-53(M)J-2-9
11.6.10.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                           B       B       -       -

11.6.10.2 Remove and Install               *                                                                            -       -       -       -
          Components
11.6.10.3 Perform Operational Check        *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.10.4 Troubleshoot System                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.6.10.5 Reprogram System                 *                                                                            -       -       -       -

11.6.10.6 Perform Transmitter                                                                                           -       -       -       -
          Preventive Maintenance
11.7 OFF-EQUIPMENT
     MAINTENANCE

11.7.1 AN/ALR-69 Hot Mockup
        TR: 12P3-2ALR69-31
11.7.1.1 Operate/Test                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

11.7.1.2    Remove/Install LRUs                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.7.1.3    Reprogram                                                                                                   -       -       -       -

11.7.2 AN/ALE-40 Hot Mockup
       TR: TO 33D7-13-77-1


                                                                 117                                                           Attachment 11
                                  AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.7.2.1    Operate/Test                                                                                                -       -       -       -

11.7.2.2    Remove/Install LRUs                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.7.3 AN/AAR-44A IR Warning
        Receiver
11.7.3.1 Perform Checkout/Repair on                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          Control Display Unit
          TR: TO 12P6-2AAR44-12
11.7.3.2 Perform Checkout/Repair on                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          Signal Processor Unit
          TR: TO 12P6-2AAR44-12
11.7.3.3 Perform Checkout/Repair on                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          Sensor Unit
          TR: TO 12P6-2AAR44-12
11.7.3.4 Operate and Troubleshoot                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          Charge Unit
          TR: TO 33D2-28-19-1,
          Para 4-3, 5-3
11.7.3.5 Troubleshoot with Unit Test                                                                                    -       -       -       -
          Set
          TR: TO 33D7-13-102-11
11.7.4 AN/APR-46 Panoramic
        Receiver
11.7.4.1 Perform LRU pre-installation                                                                                   -       -       -       -
          check
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2,
          12P3-2APR46-2-1, para 3.6
11.7.4.2 Perform Unit Level Test of                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          C- 115A
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2,
          Para 11.4
11.7.4.3 Perform Unit Level Test of                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          C-125A
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2,
          Para 12.4
11.7.4.4 Perform Unit Level Test of                                                                                     -       -       -       -
          C-135
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2-1,
          Para 8.4
11.7.4.5 Perform Unit Level                                                                                             -       -       -       -
          Test/Alignment of TN-118A
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2,
          Para 8.4, 8.5
11.7.4.6 Perform Unit Level                                                                                             -       -       -       -
          Test/Alignment of TN-130
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2,
          Para 9.4, 9.5



                                                                 118                                                           Attachment 11
                                  AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.7.4.7  Perform Unit Level                                                                                            -       -       -       -
          Test/Alignment of ES-3
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2,
          Para 7.4, 7.5
11.7.4.8 Perform Unit Level                                                                                             -       -       -       -
          Test/Alignment of MD-127A
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2,
          Para 10.4, 10.5
11.7.4.9 Perform Unit Level                                                                                             -       -       -       -
          Test/Alignment of MD-127B
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2-1,
          Para 6.4, 6.5
11.7.4.10 Perform Unit Level Test of                                                                                    -       -       -       -
          CP-100
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2-1,
          Para 7.4
11.7.4.11 Perform Unit Level Test of                                                                                    -       -       -       -
          MD-100
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2-1,
          Para 9.4
11.7.4.12 Perform Unit Level Test of                                                                                    -       -       -       -
          Omni Antenna
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2,
          Para 6.3
11.7.4.13 Perform MPT of APM-474                                                                                        -       -       -       -
          Test set
          TR: TO 33D7-13-224-1, Ch
          5
11.7.4.14 Perform Functional Check of                                                                                   -       -       -       -
          Hot Mockup
          TR: TO 12P3-2APR46-2,
          Para 3.4.2, 3.4.3, & 12P3-
          2APR46-2-1, Para 3.6
11.7.5 AN/ALQ-172 I-LEVEL MX

11.7.5.1  Remove/Install SRU
          TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ172-
          XXX
11.7.5.1.1 LRU-1                                                                                                        -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.2    LRU-2                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.3    LRU-3                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.4    LRU-4                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.5    LRU-5                                                                                                     -       -       -       -




                                                                 119                                                           Attachment 11
                                     AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.7.5.1.6     LRU-6                                                                                                         -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.7     LRU-10                                                                                                        -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.8     LRU-14                                                                                                        -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.9     LRU-15                                                                                                        -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.10 LRU-17                                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.11 LRU-18                                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.12 LRU-19                                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.7.5.1.13 LRU-20                                                                                                           -       -       -       -

11.7.5.2     AN/ALM-252/ALQ-172 Hot
             Mockup
11.7.5.2.1      Operate                                                                                                      -       -       -       -
                TR: TO 33D7-13-109-1
11.7.5.2.2      Inspect/Clean/Calibrate                                                                                      -       -       -       -
                TR: TO 33D7-13-109-1
11.7.5.2.3      Troubleshoot                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
                TR: TO 33D7-13-109-1
11.7.5.2.4      Perform USM-464/ALM-                                                                                         -       -       -       -
                252 testing
                TR: Local Checklist
11.7.5.3     Enhanced Maintenance Test
             Station (EMTS) ALQ-172
             Maintenance
             TR: 12P3-2ALQ-172-218-1
             or -227-1 & CPINS
11.7.5.3.1      Power up/Power down                                                                                          -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.2     Configure EMTS software                                                                                       -       -       -       -
               for Station and LRU testing
11.7.5.3.3     Operate EMTS Execution                                                                                        -       -       -       -
               Menu Functions
11.7.5.3.4     Run RF Cable Calibration                                                                                      -       -       -       -
               Test Program
11.7.5.3.5     Test EMTS Instruments                                                                                         -       -       -       -
               and Switches (rack self-
               test)
11.7.5.3.6     Load ALQ-172 Database                                                                                         -       -       -       -
               into LRUs
11.7.5.3.7     Run Full/Abbreviated
               Go-Chain



                                                                      120                                                           Attachment 11
                                    AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.7.5.3.7.1      V1 System Level                                                                                       -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.2      V3 System Level                                                                                       -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.3      LRU-1                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.4      LRU-2                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.5      LRU-3                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.6      LRU-4                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.7      LRU-5                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.8      LRU-6                                                                                                 -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.9      LRU-10                                                                                                -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.10     LRU-14                                                                                                -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.11     LRU-15                                                                                                -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.12     LRU-18                                                                                                -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.13     LRU-19                                                                                                -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.14     LRU-20                                                                                                -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.7.15     LRU-21                                                                                                -       -       -       -

11.7.5.3.8   EMTS-unique
             maintenance
11.7.5.3.8.1   Perform preventive                                                                                       -       -       -       -
              maintenance
11.7.5.3.8.2   Verify/calibration of                                                                                    -       -       -       -
              commercial & non-
              commercial test
              equipment
11.7.5.3.8.3  Remove/replace                                                                                            -       -       -       -
              defective assemblies
11.7.5.3.8.4  Reconfigure/load system                                                                                   -       -       -       -
              computer software
11.7.5.3.8.5  Troubleshoot test set                                                                                     -       -       -       -
              faults
11.7.6 QRC 84-05 RADAR
        WARNING RECEIVER




                                                                 121                                                           Attachment 11
                                    AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.7.6.1     Perform Checkout/Alignment                                                                                     -       -       -       -
             of AMU
             TR: TO 12P3-5QRC84-22,
             table 6-1, Para 6-3
11.7.6.2     Perform Checkout/Analysis of                                                                                   -       -       -       -
             Pulse Analyzer
             TR: TO 12P3-5QRC84-32,
             Para 6-3
11.7.6.3     Perform MPT of VCU                                                                                             -       -       -       -
             Video/Splitter
             TR: TO 12P3-5QRC84-12,
             Table 6-1, 6-2
11.7.6.4     Perform Checkout/Analysis of                                                                                   -       -       -       -
             Remote Threshold Control
             Unit
             TR: TO 12P3-5QRC84-32,
             Para 8-3
11.7.6.5     Perform                                                                                                        -       -       -       -
             Checkout/Analysis/Alignment
             of Azimuth Indicator
             TR: TO 12P3-2ALR46-22,
             Para 7-11, 7-15
11.7.6.6     QRC 84-05 Support
             Equipment

11.7.6.6.1  Min Performance Test of                                                                                         -       -       -       -
            Pulse Analyzer Group
            TR: TO 33D7-13-96-2,
            Para 6-1, 6-9
11.7.6.6.2 Min Performance Test of                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            VCU Test Set
            TR: TO 33D7-13-98-1,
            Para 6-5, 6-7
11.7.6.6.3 Min Performance Test of                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            MU Test Set
            TR: TO 33D7-13-97-1,
            Para 6-5, 6-7
11.7.7 AN/USM-464 FLIGHTLINE
        TEST CART
11.7.7.1 Remove/Apply Power                                                                                                 -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1
11.7.7.2 Perform OBIT                                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1
11.7.7.3 Perform ICAL                                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1
11.7.7.4 Remove/Install Subassemblies                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1




                                                                     122                                                           Attachment 11
                                    AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                         2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.7.7.5  Perform Scheduled                                                                                               -       -       -       -
          Inspections
          TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1
11.7.7.6 Perform Software
          Maintenance
          TR: TO 31S5-4-1569-1,
          31S6-4-14-1
11.7.7.6.1 Reprogram                                                                                                      -       -       -       -

11.7.7.6.2  Winchester drive files                                                                                        -       -       -       -
            maintenance
11.7.7.7 Maintain Support
          Equipment
11.7.7.7.1 Operate USM-601                                                                                                -       -       -       -
            TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1,
            -86-1
11.7.7.7.2 Perform USM-601                                                                                                -       -       -       -
            scheduled maintenance
            TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1,
            -86-1
11.7.7.7.3 Perform DTS scheduled                                                                                          -       -       -       -
            maintenance
            TR: TO 31S5-4-1569-1
11.7.8 AN/AAR-47 IRWR

11.7.8.1 Perform Checkout/Repair of                                                                                       -       -       -       -
         Control-Indicator
         TR: TO 12P3-2AAR47-2
11.7.8.2 Perform Checkout/Repair of                                                                                       -       -       -       -
         Central Processor Unit
         TR: TO 12P3-2AAR47-2
11.7.8.3 Perform Checkout/Repair of                                                                                       -       -       -       -
         Unit Test Set
         TR: TO 12P3-2AAR47-2
11.7.9 AN/ALQ-157 IRCM SET

11.7.9.1     Perform Checkout/Repair of                                                                                   -       -       -       -
             Control-Indicator
             TR: NAVAIR 16-
             30ALQ157-1, WP0600
11.7.9.2     Perform Checkout/Repair of                                                                                   -       -       -       -
             Control Power Supply
             TR: NAVAIR 16-
             30ALQ157-1, WP0700
11.7.9.3     Perform Checkout/Repair of                                                                                   -       -       -       -
             IR Transmitter
             TR: NAVAIR 16-
             30ALQ157-1, WP0800



                                                                   123                                                           Attachment 11
                                  AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.7.9.4   Perform Operational                                                                                          -       -       -       -
           Checkout on ALQ-157 Hot
           Mockup
           TR: NAVAIR 16-
           30ALQ157-1, WP0500
11.7.10 AN/ALQ-162
        COUNTERMEASURES R/T
11.7.10.1 Perform RF cable sweep test                                                                                   -       -       -       -
           TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ162-8-1,
           Para 3-1.6
11.7.10.2 Perform UMM Comm                                                                                              -       -       -       -
           Interface test
           TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ162-8-1,
           Para 3-1.9
11.7.10.3 Perform RT-1377A Test                                                                                         -       -       -       -
           Procedures
           TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ162-8-1,
           Para 3-2
11.7.10.4 Perform Remote Control Unit                                                                                   -       -       -       -
           Test Procedure
           TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ-162-8-
           1, Para 3-3
11.7.10.5 Troubleshoot RT-1377A                                                                                         -       -       -       -
           TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ162-8-1,
           Para 3-4
11.7.10.6 Remove/Install Components                                                                                     -       -       -       -
           TR: NAVAIR 16-
           30ALQ162-1, Section 004 00
11.7.10.7 ALQ-162 Test Program
           Interface Hardware (TPIH)
11.7.10.7.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                   -       -       -       -
              TR: TO 33D7-50-2080-1,
              Para 5-2
11.7.10.7.2 Troubleshoot ILTF                                                                                           -       -       -       -
              TR: TO 33D7-50-2080-1,
              Para 5-4
11.7.10.7.3 Remove/Install TPIH                                                                                         -       -       -       -
              Components
              TR: TO 33D7-50-2080-1,
              Para 5-5.1, 5-5.6
11.7.11 AN/USM-639 ELECTRONIC
        TEST SET
11.7.11.1 Perform Scheduled                                                                                             -       -       -       -
           Maintenance
           TR: TO 33D7-13-206-1, Para
           5-2




                                                                 124                                                           Attachment 11
                                  AFSOC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      2A533C
                                       2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                       Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
                                          A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                     3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                        Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                      Level Level         Level
                                          5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                      CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                         Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
11.7.11.2 Perform MTP Self-                                                                                            -       -       -       -
          test/Diagnostics
          TR: TO 33D7-13-206-1, Para
          5-4
11.7.11.3 Perform RF Cable Sweeps                                                                                      -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 33D7-13-206-1, Para
          5-5
11.7.11.4 Perform MTP                                                                                                  -       -       -       -
          alignment/verification
          TR: TO 33D7-13-206-1, Para
          5-6, 5-7
11.7.11.5 Remove/Replace components                                                                                    -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 33D7-13-206-1, Para
          5-9
11.7.11.6 Load UMM with Software                                                                                       -       -       -       -
          TR: TO 33D7-42-65-1, Para
          4-3 thru 4-8
11.7.11.7 Perform USM-644 calibrator                                                                                   -       -       -       -
          setup/alignments
          TR: TO 33D7-13-206-1, Para
          5-6, 33D7-45-104-1




                                                                125                                                           Attachment 11
                     ELECTRONIC FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 12
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
12.1 ELECTRONIC SUPPORT
     SUBJECTS
     TR: BASIC CIRCUITS TR: TOs
     31-1-141-2, -5
12.1.1 Safety                                                                                                                B       -       -       -

12.1.2 First Aid                                                                                                             A       -       -       -

12.1.3 Electrostatic Discharge (ESD)                                                                                         B       -       -       -
       Control
12.1.4 Electromagnetic Effects                                                                                               B       -       -       -
       (EMP/EMI)
12.1.5 Metric Notation

12.1.5.1    Calculate Powers of Ten                                                                                         2b       -       -       -

12.1.5.2    Electrical Prefixes                                                                                              B       -       -       -

12.2 USE TEST EQUIPMENT

12.2.1 Analog Multimeter                                                                                                    2b       -       -       -

12.2.2 Digital Multimeter                                                                                                   2b       -       -       -

12.2.3 Oscilloscope                                                                                                         2b       -       -       -

12.2.4 Signal/Function Generator                                                                                            2b       -       -       -

12.3 BASIC CIRCUITS

12.3.1 Direct Current (DC)

12.3.1.1    Theory                                                                                                           B       -       -       -

12.3.1.2    Calculations                                                                                                    2b       -       -       -

12.3.2 Alternating Current (AC)

12.3.2.1    Theory                                                                                                           B       -       -       -




                                                                      126                                                           Attachment 12
                     ELECTRONIC FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
12.3.2.2    Calculations                                                                                                2b       -       -       -

12.4 BASIC CIRCUIT
     COMPONENTS
12.4.1 Resistors

12.4.1.1    Theory                                                                                                       B       -       -       -

12.4.1.2    Color code                                                                                                   B       -       -       -

12.4.1.3    Troubleshoot                                                                                                2b       -       -       -

12.4.2 Inductors

12.4.2.1    Theory                                                                                                       B       -       -       -

12.4.2.2    Troubleshoot                                                                                                2b       -       -       -

12.4.3 Capacitors

12.4.3.1    Theory                                                                                                       B       -       -       -

12.4.3.2    Troubleshoot                                                                                                2b       -       -       -

12.4.4 Resistive-Capacitive-Inductive
        (RCL) Circuits Theory
12.4.4.1 Basic                                                                                                           A       -       -       -

12.4.4.2    Resonant                                                                                                     A       -       -       -

12.4.4.3    Frequency Sensitive Filter                                                                                   A       -       -       -

12.5 ELECTROMAGNETIC
     DEVICES
12.5.1 Transformers

12.5.1.1    Theory                                                                                                       B       -       -       -

12.5.1.2    Troubleshoot                                                                                                2b       -       -       -

12.5.2 Relays and Solenoids

12.5.2.1    Theory                                                                                                       B       -       -       -

12.5.2.2    Troubleshoot Relay                                                                                          2b       -       -       -

12.5.3 Motor Theory


                                                                  127                                                           Attachment 12
                     ELECTRONIC FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                           2A533C
                                            2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                            Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
                                               A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                          3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                             Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                           Level Level         Level
                                               5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                           CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                              Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
12.5.3.1    DC                                                                                                              A       -       -       -

12.5.3.2    AC                                                                                                              A       -       -       -

12.5.4 Generator Theory

12.5.4.1    DC                                                                                                              A       -       -       -

12.5.4.2    AC                                                                                                              A       -       -       -

12.5.5 Synchro/Servo/Resolvers

12.5.5.1    Theory                                                                                                          A       -       -       -

12.5.5.2    Theoretical troubleshooting                                                                                     -       -       -       -

12.5.6 Transducer Theory                                                                                                    -       -       -       -

12.6 SOLID STATE DEVICES

12.6.1 Diodes

12.6.1.1    Theory                                                                                                          B       -       -       -

12.6.1.2    Troubleshoot                                                                                                   2b       -       -       -

12.6.2 Bipolar Junction Transistors

12.6.2.1    Theory                                                                                                          B       -       -       -

12.6.2.2    Troubleshoot                                                                                                   2b       -       -       -

12.6.3 Special Purpose Device Theory

12.6.3.1    Zener Diode                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

12.6.3.2    Light Emitting Diode (LED)                                                                                      A       -       -       -

12.6.3.3    Liquid Crystal Display (LCD)                                                                                    A       -       -       -

12.6.3.4    Integrated Circuits (IC)                                                                                        A       -       -       -

12.6.3.5    Field Effect Transistor (FET)                                                                                   -       -       -       -

12.6.3.6    Operational Amplifiers                                                                                          A       -       -       -

12.7 TRANSISTOR AMPLIFIER
     CIRCUITS

                                                                     128                                                           Attachment 12
                      ELECTRONIC FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                     2A533C
                                      2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                      Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)
                                         A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                    3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                       Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                     Level Level         Level
                                         5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                     CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                        Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
12.7.1 Theory                                                                                                         B       -       -       -

12.7.2 Stabilization                                                                                                  B       -       -       -

12.7.3 Coupling                                                                                                       B       -       -       -

12.8 POWER SUPPLY CIRCUITS

12.8.1 Theory

12.8.1.1    Rectifiers                                                                                                B       -       -       -

12.8.1.2    Filters                                                                                                   B       -       -       -

12.8.1.3    Voltage Regulators                                                                                        B       -       -       -

12.8.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  2b       -       -       -

12.9 WAVE GENERATING
     CIRCUITS
12.9.1 Theory

12.9.1.1    Oscillators                                                                                               B       -       -       -

12.9.1.2    Multivibrators                                                                                            B       -       -       -

12.9.1.3    Waveshaping Circuits                                                                                      B       -       -       -

12.10 DIGITAL NUMBERING
      SYSTEMS
12.10.1 Conversions

12.10.1.1 Binary                                                                                                      B       -       -       -

12.10.1.2 Octal                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

12.10.1.3 Hexadecimal                                                                                                 B       -       -       -

12.10.1.4 Binary Coded Decimal                                                                                        B       -       -       -

12.10.1.5 Binary Math Operations                                                                                     2b       -       -       -

12.11 DIGITAL LOGIC CIRCUITS

12.11.1 Theory

12.11.1.1 Gates                                                                                                       B       -       -       -


                                                               129                                                           Attachment 12
                    ELECTRONIC FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
12.11.1.2 Flip Flops                                                                                                     B       -       -       -

12.11.1.3 Combinational Logic Circuits                                                                                   -       -       -       -

12.11.1.3.1 Theoretical Troubleshoot                                                                                     -       -       -       -

12.11.2 Digital to Analog (DA) and                                                                                       B       -       -       -
        Analog to Digital (AD)
        Converters Theory
12.12 BASIC COMPUTER
      FUNDAMENTALS
12.12.1 Network Theory

12.12.1.1 Components                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

12.12.1.2 Types                                                                                                          -       -       -       -

12.12.1.3 Topologies                                                                                                     -       -       -       -

12.12.1.4 Communications Mediums                                                                                         -       -       -       -

12.12.1.5 LAN Architecture                                                                                               -       -       -       -

12.13 BASIC COMMUNICATIONS
      THEORY
12.13.1 Antenna                                                                                                          -       -       -       -

12.13.2 Transmission Lines

12.13.2.1 Data Bus                                                                                                       B       -       -       -

12.13.3 Waveguides                                                                                                       -       -       -       -

12.13.4 Transmitters

12.13.4.1 Amplitude Modulation (AM)                                                                                      B       -       -       -

12.13.4.2 Frequency Modulation (FM)                                                                                      -       -       -       -

12.13.5 Receivers

12.13.5.1 Amplitude Modulation
           (AM)
12.13.5.1.1 AM Receiver Signals

12.13.5.1.1.1     Measure Radio                                                                                          -       -       -       -
                  Frequency (RF)


                                                                  130                                                           Attachment 12
                   ELECTRONIC FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                          2A533C
                                           2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
                                              A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                         3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level         Level
                                              5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                          CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                             Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
12.13.5.1.1.2  Measure Intermediate                                                                                        -       -       -       -
               Frequency (IF)
12.13.5.1.1.3 Measure Audio                                                                                                -       -       -       -
               Frequency (AF)
12.13.5.1.1.4 Measure Local                                                                                                -       -       -       -
               Oscillator (LO) Output
12.13.5.2 Frequency Modulation (FM)                                                                                        -       -       -       -

12.14 SOLDER AND DESOLDER

12.14.1     Terminal Connection                                                                                            -       -       -       -

12.14.2     Printed Circuit Boards (PCB)                                                                                   -       -       -       -

12.14.3     Multi-pin Connections                                                                                          -       -       -       -

12.14.4     Coaxial Connector                                                                                              -       -       -       -

12.15 ASSEMBLE SOLDERLESS
      CONNECTORS

12.15.1     Crimped Connection                                                                                             -       -       -       -

12.15.2     Coaxial Connector                                                                                              -       -       -       -

12.15.3     Multi-pin Connector                                                                                            -       -       -       -




                                                                    131                                                           Attachment 12
                                       2AX7X TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                            2A533C
                                             2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                             Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
                                                A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level         Level
                                                5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                            CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                               Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
ATTACHMENT 13
NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level wartime course.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with an (*R) are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 736-7899.
13.1 MANAGEMENT WITHIN THE
     MAINTENANCE COMPLEX
     TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and
     specific MAJCOM guidance
13.1.1 Functions of the Maintenance                                                                                          -       -       -      B
       Complex
13.1.2 Maintenance Group Commander                                                                                           -       -       -      B
       Responsibilities
       TR: AFI 38-101, AFPD 38-1
13.1.3 Maintenance Debriefing and                                                                                            -       -       -      A
       Landing Status Codes
13.1.4 Maintenance Analysis                                                                                                  -       -       -      B

13.1.5 Compliance and Standardization                                                                                        -       -       -      A
       Requirements Listings
13.1.6 Maintenance Performance                                                                                               -       -       -      B
       Indicators (MPI) Relationships
13.1.7 Foreign Object Damage (FOD)                                                                                           -       -       -      A
       Program Management
       TR: AFI 21-101
13.1.8 Joint Oil Analysis Program                                                                                            -       -       -      B
       TR: TO 33-1-37-1
13.1.9 Mobility                                                                                                              -       -       -      A

13.1.10 Hazard Declarations for                                                                                              -       -       -      A
        Mobility Packages
        TR: AFMAN 24-204, AFI 91-
        301
13.1.11 Hazardous Material Handling                                                                                          -       -       -      B
        TR: AFI 91-301, AFI 24-202,
        AFMAN 23- 110, AFMAN 24-
        404
13.1.12 Production Supervisor, Flight                                                                                        -       -       -      B
        Chief, and Expediter Duties and
        Responsibilities
        TR: AFI 21-101
13.1.13 Special Certification Rosters                                                                                        -       -       -      B
        TR: AFI 21-101
13.1.14 Maintenance Incident                                                                                                 -       -       -      B
        Investigation and Prevention
        TR: AFI 91-204



                                                                      132                                                          Attachment 13
                                   2AX7X TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       2A533C
                                        2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                        Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
                                           A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                      3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level Level         Level
                                           5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                       CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                          Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
13.1.15 Aircraft/Equipment                                                                                              -       -       -      A
        Impoundment
        TR: AFI 21-101
13.1.16 Operational Risk Management                                                                                     -       -       -      B
        (ORM)
        TR: AFPD 90-9, AFI 90-901,
        AFPAM 90-902
13.1.17 Restricted Maintenance Areas                                                                                    -       -       -      A

13.1.18 Proper Handling of Classified                                                                                   -       -       -      A
        Assets
        TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-20-1
13.1.19 Maintenance Inspection                                                                                          -       -       -      B
        Concepts
        TR: TO 00-20-1
13.1.20 Tool and Equipment                                                                                              -       -       -      A
        Management
        TR: AFI 21-101
13.2 ENLISTED SPECIALTY
     TRAINING
      TR: AFI 36-2201 vol. 1-6, 36-
      2232
13.2.1 Training Management and                                                                                          -       -       -      B
        Records
13.2.2 IMDS Automated Training                                                                                          -       -       -      B
        Business Area
13.2.3 Career Field Education and                                                                                       -       -       -      A
        Training Plan (CFETP)
13.2.4 Specialty Training Standard                                                                                      -       -       -      A
        (STS)
13.2.5 Occupational Survey Report                                                                                       -       -       -      A
        (OSR)
13.2.6 Utilization and Training                                                                                         -       -       -      A
        Workshop (U&TW)
13.2.7 Training Forecast/Request                                                                                        -       -       -      A

13.2.8 Training Waiver Process                                                                                          -       -       -      A

13.2.9 Field Evaluation Questionnaire                                                                                   -       -       -      A
        (FEQ) and Graduate Assessment
        Survey (GAS)
13.3 ACCOUNTABILITY FOR
     RECORDS, REPORTS, AND
     FORMS
      TR: AFI 21-109, TOs 00-35D-
      54 and 00-20 Series
13.3.1 Historical Records                                                                                               -       -       -      B




                                                                 133                                                          Attachment 13
                                  2AX7X TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A            B            C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training      Training     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start        Complete     Initials   Initials   Initials
13.3.2 Minimum Essential System                                                                                          -       -       -      A
        Listing (MESL)
        TR: AFI 21-103
13.4 AUTOMATED
      MAINTENANCE SYSTEM
13.4.1 Core Automated Maintenance                                                                                        -       -       -      A
        System for Airlift (G081)
13.4.2 Integrated Maintenance Data                                                                                       -       -       -      B
        System (IMDS)
        TR: AFM 66-279 Vol I-XXVII,
        TO 00-20-2
13.4.3 Maintenance Data                                                                                                  -       -       -      B
        Documentation (MDD)
        TR: TO-00-20-2
13.4.4 Enterprise Data Warehouse                                                                                         -       -       -      A
        (EDW)
13.4.5 Reliability and Maintainability                                                                                   -       -       -      A
        Information System (REMIS)
13.4.6 Enhanced Maintenance                                                                                              -       -       -      A
        Operations Center (EMOC)
        Software
13.4.7 Air Force Technical Order                                                                                         -       -       -      B
        (AFTO) Forms 781, 244, and
        245
        TR: 00-20-1
13.4.8 Configuration Management                                                                                          -       -       -      A
        TR: AFI 21-101
13.4.9 Aircraft/Equipment                                                                                                -       -       -      B
        Modifications
        TR: AFI 63-1101
13.4.10 Nuclear Surety                                                                                                   -       -       -      A
        TR: AFI 91-101
13.5 SUPPLY MANAGEMENT
     TR: DOD 7200-10, AFM 67-1,
     AFMANs 23-220 and 23-110
13.5.1 Maintenance Supply Concept                                                                                        -       -       -      A
        TR: AFMAN 23-110
13.5.2 Supply Documents Management                                                                                       -       -       -      B

13.5.3 Precious Metal Program                                                                                            -       -       -      A
       TR: AFMAN 23-110
13.5.4 Quick Reference List (QRL)                                                                                        -       -       -      A

13.5.5 Standard Base Supply System                                                                                       -       -       -      B
       (SBSS)
       TR: AFMAN 23-110




                                                                  134                                                          Attachment 13
                              2AX7X TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                              2A533C
                                         2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                         Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
                                            A         B       A          B              C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                       3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level         Level
                                            5      7      Training   Training        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                        CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                           Lvl    Lvl      Start     Complete        Initials   Initials   Initials
13.5.6 Integrated Logistic System-                                                                                       -       -       -      A
        Supply (ILS-S) and Global
        Combat Support System (GCSS)
        TR: AFMAN 23-110
13.5.7 Maintenance Repair/Supply                                                                                         -       -       -      B
        Delivery Priorities
        TR: AFI 21-101
13.5.8 Repair Cycle Assets                                                                                               -       -       -      B
        TR: AFI 21-101
13.5.9 Report of Survey and Statement                                                                                    -       -       -      B
        of Charges
        TR: AFI 23-220
13.5.10 Equipment Account                                                                                                -       -       -      B
        Management
        TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFI 21-
        101
3.5.11 Custodian Authorization /                                                                                         -       -       -      B
        Custody Receipt Listing
        (CA/CRL)
        TR: AFI 21-101
13.5.12 Special Purpose Recoverable                                                                                      -       -       -      A
        Authorized Maintenance
        (SPRAM)
        TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFIs 21-
        101, 21-103
13.5.13 Air Force Equipment                                                                                              -       -       -      A
        Management System
        (AFEMS)
13.5.14 Bench, Shop, Operating Stocks,                                                                                   -       -       -      A
        Work Order Residue, Special
        Levels, and Shelf-Life Items
        TR: AFI 21-101
13.5.15 Hazardous Materials                                                                                              -       -       -      B
        (HAZMAT)
        TR: AFI 32-7086
13.5.16 Qualified Products Listing                                                                                       -       -       -      A

13.5.17 Local Manufacture                                                                                                -       -       -      A
        TR: AFI 21-101
13.6 LOGISTICS AND RESOURCE
     MANAGEMENT
     TR: AFPD 21-1
13.6.1 Air Force Government-Wide                                                                                         -       -       -      A
        Purchase Card Program and Air
        Force Form 9
        TR: AFI 64-117
13.6.2 Air Force Repair Enhancement                                                                                      -       -       -      A
        Program (AFREP)
        TR: AFI 21-123


                                                          135
                              2AX7X TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                               2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A          B              C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training   Training        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start     Complete        Initials   Initials   Initials
13.6.3 Air Force Materiel Command                                                                                         -       -       -      A
       (AFMC) Responsibilities
13.6.4 Special Experience Identifier                                                                                      -       -       -      A
       (SEI)
       TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 36-
       2108
13.6.5 Unit Manpower Document                                                                                             -       -       -      A
       (UMD) and Unit Management
       Personnel Roster (UMPR)
13.6.6 Manning Standards and                                                                                              -       -       -      A
       Logistics Composite Model
       (LCOM)
       TR: AFI 38-201, AFMAN 38-
       208
13.6.7 Status of Resources and Training                                                                                   -       -       -      A
       (SORTS)
13.7 TECHNICAL ORDER
     MANAGEMENT
13.7.1 Technical Order Distribution                                                                                       -       -       -      A
       Office (TODO), Technical Order
       Distribution Account (TODA),
       and Technical Order Review
       Board (TORB)
       TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-5-1
13.7.2 Air Force Technical Order                                                                                          -       -       -      A
       Forms 22, 27, and 158
13.7.3 Automated Technical Order                                                                                          -       -       -      A
       Management System (ATOMS)
       TR: TO 00-5-1
13.7.4 Time Compliance Technical                                                                                          -       -       -      A
       Orders (TCTO)
       TR: TO 00-5-15
13.7.5 Joint Computer-Aided                                                                                               -       -       -      A
       Acquisition and Logistic Support
       (JCALS)
13.7.6 Electronic Technical Orders                                                                                        -       -       -      A

13.7.7 USAF Deficiency Reporting and                                                                                      -       -       -      B
       Investigating System
       TR: TO 00-35D-54
13.7.8 Deficiency Report Entry and                                                                                        -       -       -      A
       Mail Submitter (DREAMS)
13.7.9 Supply Discrepancy Report                                                                                          -       -       -      B




                                                           136
                              2AX7X TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                               2A533C
                                          2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                          Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
                                             A         B       A          B              C          D          E           A       B           C
1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                        3        5          7
     REFERENCES                                                                                                           Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level Level         Level
                                             5      7      Training   Training        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                         CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                            Lvl    Lvl      Start     Complete        Initials   Initials   Initials
13.7.10 Product Improvement Working                                                                                       -       -       -      A
        Groups (PWIG), Technical
        Improvement Product
        Working Group (TIPWG),
        System Training Plan (STP),
        Program Management Review
        (PMR)
13.7.11 Corrosion Prevention Advisory                                                                                     -       -       -      A
        Board (CPAB)
        TR: AFI 21-105
13.7.12 Aircraft Structural Integrity                                                                                     -       -       -      A
        Program (ASIP)
        TR: AFIs 21-101, 63-1001
13.7.13 Precision Measurement                                                                                             -       -       -      A
        Equipment Laboratory (PMEL)
13.8 COMPUTER APPLICATION

13.8.1 Air Force Electronic Publishing                                                                                    -       -       -      B
       Library (AFEPL)
13.8.2 Air Force Portal                                                                                                   -       -       -      B

13.9 MAINTENANCE
     MANAGEMENT POLICY
     CENTRALIZED
     INTERMEDIATE REPAIR
     FACILITIES (CIRFs)
     TR: AFI 21-101
13.9.1 Unit Type Codes (UTCs) to                                                                                          -       -       -      A
        support Forward Operating
        Locations (FOLs) and
        Centralized Intermediate Repair
        Facility (CIRFs)
13.9.2 Readiness Spares Packages                                                                                          -       -       -      A
        (RSPs) to support O-level
        maintenance at FOLs
13.9.3 Readiness Spares Packages                                                                                          -       -       -      A
        (RSPs) to support I-level
        maintenance at CIRFs
13.9.4 Air Force Portal; for status of                                                                                    -       -       -      A
        aircraft, engines, pods, test
        stations, and LRUs/SRUs
13.10 SAFETY
      TR: AFI 21-101
13.10.1 Hazard Abatement Program                                                                                          -       -       -      A
        TR: AFI 91-301
13.10.2 Maintenance Safety Guidance                                                                                       -       -       -      A
        TR: AFOSH STD 91-501
13.10.3 Evaluation Program                                                                                                -       -       -      A
        TR: AFI 21-101


                                                           137
                                    2AX7X TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                    2A533C
                                               2.               3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                               Core Tasks                                                                    Indicate Training/ Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
                                                  A         B       A          B              C          D          E           A       B           C
  1.   TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                           3        5          7
       REFERENCES                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                              Level Level         Level
                                                  5      7      Training   Training        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                              CRS     CDC     CRS    CDC
                                                 Lvl    Lvl      Start     Complete        Initials   Initials   Initials
  13.10.4 Quality Assurance Program                                                                                            -       -       -      A
          (QAP)
          TR: AFI 21-101
  13.10.5 Special Programs                                                                                                     -       -       -      A
          TR: AFI 21-101

Note: BLK #4: Columns (1) & (2) can be relabeled to meet CF Requirements; i.e., 2 phase 3 skill level course, 5 lvl QTPs




                                                                138
SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST

4. Measurement: Each proficiency code STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
student so he or she knows what is expected of him or her to successfully complete training on
each task. Each objective is composed of a condition, behavior, and standard which state what is
expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes
place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc.). The behavior is the observable portion of the objective
(i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the level of performance that is measured to
ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses letter code(s) to identify
how it is measured. All objectives use the PC code(s), which indicate a progress check is used to
measure subject or task knowledge. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to
measure the subject or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a
subject or task knowledge progress check and a separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test.

5. Standard: The minimum standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for
performance objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual
progress check checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student's
progress on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and
students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is
attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all progress checks prior to taking the written
test.

6. Proficiency Level: Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item
the objective supports. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section A, of this CFETP for
an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performances are taught to the "2b"
proficiency level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need
assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine
step by step procedures for doing the task. For tasks that are taught to the "3c" proficiency level,
students can do all parts of the task and only require a spot check on completed work
(competent). The student can also identify why and when a task must be done and why each step
is needed.

7. Course Objectives: A detailed listing of initial skills objectives may be obtained by
submitting a written request to the AETC Training Manager, 365 TRS/TRR, 609 Ninth Ave.,
Stop 22, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2335.




                                                139
SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIAL:

8. The following list of support materials is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas. Support material is any training package designed to enhance the
learning process at any level of training. Refer to the Air Force Education and Training Course
Accouncements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses. ETCA can be accessed from
Keesler’s homepage at https://hq2af.keesler.af.mil

8.1. Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from, or are under development by 367
TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB, Utah. Their course catalog is available on the Internet at
http://www/hill.af.mil/367 TRS.findex.htm. Ordering information is found in the General
Information area of the catalog.

For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

81 TRSS                                       782 TRG
Qualification Training Flight                 826 Avenue G Suite 4
601 D Street                                  Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2867
Keesler AFB, MS 39534-2229                    DSN 736-2578
DSN 597-3343

362 TRS/TRR
613 10th Street
Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2352
DSN 736-1825

Course Number                             Course Title                         OPR
*AFQTP 2EXXX-201L                Communication Electronics         81 TRSS/Qualification
                                 Workcenter Manager’s              Training Flight
                                 Handbook
*AFQTP2EXX-201LB                 Communication Electronics         81 TRSS/Qualification
                                 Manager’s Handbook                Training Flight
ECI Specialized Course 1200      Air Force Technical Orders        782 TRG
*AFQTP 2EXXX-201G                Quality Assurance                 81 TRSS/Qualification
                                                                   Training Flight
*AFQTP 2EXXX-201P                Workcenter Test Equipment         81 TRSS/Qualification
                                 Management                        Training Flight
*AFQTP 2EXXX-201J                Maintenance Training Program      81 TRSS/Qualification
                                                                   Training Flight
**J6AZWXXXXX 0G1A                General Technical Order           362 TRS/TRR
                                 System
**J6AZWXXXXX 0A1A                General Technical Order           362 TRS/TRR
                                 System

*Courses can be downloaded from 81 TRSS home page at:
https://wwwmil.keesler.af.mil/81trss/qflight/index.htm

**These courses are Computer Based Training (CBT), and listed at web site:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil

                                              140
SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

9. Purpose: This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the Electronic
Warfare Systems specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their
career field training programs.

10. Air Force Field Training Detachment (FTD) Courses:

Refer to website: https://etca.randolph.af.mil
Click on the 982 Training Patch that shows, “Search Field Training”
In the field for Training Organization, type “Field Training” and click “GO”
All FTD courses are listed.
Click on the red course number.
Course descriptions and locations are listed.

For further information on the FTD courses, contact the OPRs at:

372 TRS                                    373 TRS
912 I Ave, Suite 3                         912 I Ave., Suite 3
Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2361                 Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2361
DSN 736-4801                               DSN 736-4750


11. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses:

365 TRS/TRR
609 9th Avenue
Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2335
DSN 736-1475

Course Number                               Course Title                             USER
CDC 2A553C             Electronic Warfare Systems Journeyman                          EW
    Volume 1           Maintenance Principles, Part 1                                 EW
    Volume 2           Maintenance Principles, Part 2                                 EW
    Volume 3           Avionic Systems Maintenance                                    EW
    Volume 4           Avionic Test Equipment                                         EW
    Volume 5           Electronic Warfare Principles                                  EW
    Volume 6           Electronic Warfare Systems                                     EW

12. Exportable Courses:

For further information on the following exportable courses, contact the OPRs at:

367 TRSS                                    362 TRS
6058 Aspen Avenue                           613 10th Avenue
Hill AFB UT 84056-5805                      Sheppard AFB, TX
DSN 777-7830/0150                           DSN 736-1825


                                              141
      Interactive Courseware (ICW) is available from, or under development by 367 TRS/TRSS
at Hill AFB, Utah. To obtain more information about each course, request a copy of the
Courseware Catalog from DSN 777-0160. To request ordering information on hardware, your
MAJCOM training POC (for ACC, AMC, and ANG) is the first stop. For personnel under other
Modicums, contact them directly; they will provide you the information required for purchasing
the item. If you decide to purchase the system, they will FAX you an AF Form 616 to use as an
example. The 367 TRSS Internet site is: http//www.hill.af.mil/376TRSS/findex.htm.

13. Courses Under Development/Revision:

365 TRS/TRR
609 Ninth Street
Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2361
DSN 736-7899


Course Number                           Course Title                         OPR       USER
J3ABR2A533C048A         Electronic Warfare Systems Apprentice                365        AF
                                                                           TRS/TRR

SECTION E - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

14. Currently only Air Combat Command (ACC) has a MAJCOM mandatory course list
(MMCL). MAJCOMs change mandatory course requirements occasionally. Up-to-date ACC
requirements can be obtained at http://xo.acc.af.mil/xom/XOMM/XOMM.html. After access,
click on "training" and then on MMCL". Refer to the HQ ACC MMCL for additional
information.

15. Additional courses available from ACC.

Contact the course OPRs at:

HQ ACC LSG/OL-CA
6058 Aspen
Hill AFB, UT 84056-5895
DSN 777-4278

Course Number                          Course Title                          OPR       USER
AIA2A1X7-001          Ground Data Processing System Management              HQ AIA      AIA
                      Course
Y140009               ACC Production Superintendent                        HQ/ACC/      ACC
                                                                             LSG
Y140015               ACC Maintenance Instructor                           HQ/ACC/      ACC
                                                                             LSG
Y140020               ACC Maintenance Training Management                  HQ/ACC/      ACC
                                                                             LSG




                                             142
