DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE        CFETP 2A5X3D
Headquarters US Air Force             Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-1030                April 2004




                     AFSC 2A5X3D

                     AIRBORNE
                   SURVEILLANCE
                  RADAR SYSTEMS




         CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
           AND TRAINING PLAN
                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                             AIRBORNE SURVEILLANCE RADAR SYSTEMS
                                          AFSC 2A5X3D

                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I
Preface..............................................................................................................................................1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained ......................................................................................................2

           Section A, General Information...........................................................................................4
                  Purpose of the CFETP
                  Use of the CFETP
                  Coordination and Approval

           Section B, Career Field Progression and Information .........................................................5
                  Specialty Descriptions
                  Skill/Career Progression
                  Training Decisions
                  Community College of the Air Force
                  Career Field Path

           Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements ..................................................................12
                  Purpose
                  Specialty Qualification Requirements

           Section D, Resource Constraints .......................................................................................15
                  Purpose
                  Training Constraints

           Section E, Transitional Training Guide .............................................................................16

PART II
     Section Specialty, Training Standard.................................................................................16

           Section B, Course Objective List.......................................................................................65

           Section C, Support Materials .............................................................................................66

           Section D, Training Course Index .....................................................................................68

           Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements .....................................................................71

           2A5X3D STS Course Matrix.............................................................................................72

Supersedes: CFETP 2A5X3D, Oct 2002                                             Certified: HQ USAF/ILMM (CMS J. Mayle)
                                                                               Number of Printed Pages: 78
                                                                               OPR: 365 TRS/TRR (Mrs. Peterson)
                                                                          i
                    AIRBORNE SURVEILLANCE RADAR SYSTEMS
                                 AFSC 2A5X3D
                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training. To
read, review, or print a copy of current CFETP, go to the Aircraft Maintenance Homepage at:
http://www.il.hq.af.mil/ilm/ilmm/acmaint/index.html. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated
positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors will use both parts of the CFETP to plan,
manage, and control training within the career field.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and
facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements to support career filed
restructures.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training; Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training; wartime course requirements; core task; and
correspondence course requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors use to determine if airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C
identifies available support materials. An example is Qualification Training Packages (QTPs)
developed to support proficiency training. These packages are identified in AFIND 8,
Numerical Index of Specialized Educational Training Publications. Section D identifies a
training course index supervisors can use to determine resources available to support training;
included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section E identifies MAJCOM unique
training requirements supervisors use to determine additional training requirements unique to the
MAJCOM.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in the specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part
II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                  1
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list which describes a
particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task
qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty
position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career
field. It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make
career field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual's ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official. A person the commander assigns to determine an individual's ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Task. A task Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFMs) identify as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty regardless of duty position. Core tasks
identified with an */R are optional for AFRES and ANG.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial and advanced skills course
training standards, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards
provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to
assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Developing,
Managing and Conducting Military Training Programs.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a field
training detachment (FTD) or by a mobile training team.



                                                 2
Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course which results in award of the entry level.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job
performance.

Mission Ready Technician. A formal course which results in an airman receiving hands-on
training and task certification of selected tasks so the individual will be immediately productive
upon arrival at their first duty station.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification)
training.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify
an individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Radar System. Includes AWACS/JSTARS radar and the interrogator system.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Specialty Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite of
lesson plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct
training. These packages are prepared by AETC, approved by National Security Agency (NSA),
and administered by qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes skills and
knowledge that airman in a particular Air Force specialty need on the job. It further serves as a
contract between the Air Education and Training Command and the user to show the overall
training requirements for an Air Force specialty code that the formal schools teach.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed
quantity or quality.


                                                 3
Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements)
of the United States Air Force.

Training Impact Decision System (TIDES). A computer-based decision support technology
designed to assist Air Force career field managers in making critical judgments relevant to what
training should be provided personnel within career fields, when training should be provided (at
what career points), and where training should be conducted (training setting).

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training that leads to attainment of higher level of
proficiency.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty
Code (AFSC) functional managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training
personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for Air Force Career Field Managers
(AFCFM), MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers,
supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training
program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A5X3D should receive to
develop and progress throughout their career. This CFETP identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific
training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty
for award of the 3-skill level. This training is conducted by AETC at one of the technical
training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification
requirements, and correspondence course requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill levels.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the
job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency
training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable training courses, or on-the-job
training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field's training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.




                                                 4
2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.
2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, Training
Detachment (TD) and exportable training based on requirements established by the users and
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide identified training.
2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident training,
contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed mandatory training, to support
this AFSC, must be identified for inclusion into plan and must not duplicate other available
training resources.
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The using MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field
training requirements. The AETC training manager for AFSC 2A5X3D will initiate an annual
review of this document by AETC and MAJCOM AFSC functional managers to ensure currency
and accuracy. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Description.
4.1. Specialty Summary (Apprentice-Craftsman): Inspects, modifies, and maintains airborne
warning and control system (AWACS) surveillance radar, joint surveillance target attack radar
systems (JSTARS), and interrogator systems. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 104.
4.1.1. Duties and Responsibilities.
Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems Apprentice and Journeyman (2A533D/53D).
Inspects and performs surveillance radar systems and interrogator systems maintenance.
Inspects and tests radar and interrogator systems to locate defects such as cracked or deteriorated
wiring, loose mountings, and defective connections. Modifies equipment according to time
compliance technical orders and other directives. Isolates malfunctioning radar equipment using
built-in and manual fault isolation testing and diagnostic routines. Checks components for
technical order compliance. Verifies equipment performance and modifications. Maintains
ground test stations, support equipment (SE), and maintenance records. Operates and maintains
surveillance radar transmitter and radar computer test stations; radar and interrogator systems
SE; and posts entries on maintenance forms.
4.1.1.2. Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems Craftsman (2A573D). Advises on problems
of fault detection and isolation, maintenance, and modification of surveillance radar systems and
interrogator systems. Analyzes equipment operating characteristics to determine sources of
malfunctions. Identifies maintenance problem areas, and recommends corrective action.
Performs production functions.          Coordinates maintenance plans to meet operational
commitments. Supervises and assists in aircraft launching and recovery. Reviews maintenance
data collection summaries to determine trends and production effectiveness. Debriefs flight
personnel.



                                                5
4.2.    Specialty Summary Avionics Superintendent (2A590).                 Manages and directs
maintenance functions and activities. Included are areas of avionics sensors, communications
and navigation, guidance and control, airborne warning and control radar, inertial and radar
navigation, airborne command post communication systems, avionics test stations, electronic
warfare (EW) systems, and avionics support equipment. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup:
102.
4.2.1. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.2.1.1. Plans, organizes, and directs avionic activities. Establishes production controls and
work standards. Analyzes reports on the installation, removal, overhaul, repair, calibration, and
modification of avionics systems and associated support equipment.
4.2.1.2. Directs avionics activities. Directs, controls, and plans inspection, removal,
replacement, calibration, and repair of avionics systems and associated support equipment.
Determines extent and economy of repair or replacement of components. Coordinates with
supply, operations, and other maintenance activities to improve procedures and ensure mission
support.
4.2.1.3. Inspects and evaluates avionics activities. Establishes and checks inspection
procedures. Inspects activities to solve maintenance, supply, manpower, and personnel
problems. Interprets findings, and recommends corrective action. Ensures compliance with
directive governing handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and material.
4.2.1.4. Performs avionics functions. Solves problems and interprets publications for
inspection, repair, modification, overhaul, removal, installation, and calibration of avionics
systems and associated equipment. Plans and implements budget, modifications, and acquisition
processes. Plans and executes mobility programs and equipment deployments. Plans physical
layout of facilities, and ensures support equipment and spare parts availability.

5. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the
apprentice to the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to
accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan,
develop, manage and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part
of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives proper training at appropriate points in their
career. The following narrative and the AFSC 2A5X3D Enlisted Career Training Flowcharts
identify the career skill progression.
5.1. Apprentice (3 Level). Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a
trainer to enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the Career Development Course,
Task Qualification Training, and available exportable courses for continued advancement. Once
task certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for
appointment as unit trainers after completion of a formal trainer course.
5.2. Journeyman (5 Level). Once upgraded to the 5-skill level, a journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base. Journeyman may be assigned job positions
such as squadron support, software analysis, quality assurance and various staff positions.
Journeyman should complete available TD courses and MAJCOM specific training. Individuals
will attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) after having 48 months in the Air Force.
Journeyman will be considered for appointment as unit trainers after completion of a formal trainer
course. They should attend the available Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems advanced technical
training courses for the assigned Mission Design Series (MDS). Individuals will use their CDCs
to prepare for testing under the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). They should also


                                               6
consider continuing their education toward a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.
Timelines and requirements may vary for ANG and AFRC.
5.3. Craftsman (7 Level). A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions such as shift leader, element chief, flight/section chief, and task certifier. They will
also be assigned to work in staff positions. Craftsmen should take courses or obtain added
knowledge in other avionic systems and in resource/personnel management. Continued
academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged. In addition,
when promoted to TSgt, individuals will complete the Noncommissioned Officer Academy.
MSgts are eligible to enroll in the Senior NCO Correspondence Course.
5.4. Superintendent (9 Level). A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight
NCOIC, production supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas
of budget, manpower, resources and personnel management should be pursued through
continuing education.        Individuals promoted to SMSgt will complete the Senior
Noncommissioned Officer Academy. Additional higher education and completion of courses
outside of their career AFSC are also recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP was developed using a building block approach (simple to
complex) to encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Airborne
Surveillance Radar System career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and
how to meet these training requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop affordable
training, eliminate duplication, and prevent a fragmented approach to training. The following
decisions were made by MAJCOM Functional Managers and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) at
the Career Field Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) held at Sheppard AFB, 22-26
January 2001 and the follow-on U&TW held at Keesler AFB, 20-23 February 2001.
6.1. Initial Skills Training. A decision was made to revise both the current E-3 AWACS 3-
level course and the E-8 JSTARS 3-level course. Course revisions are scheduled for October
2002 and are timed to coincide with the modification schedule of the E-3 and E-8 aircraft. Major
changes include modification of subject knowledge to include Radar System Improvement
Program and Computer Replacement Program data. The existing trainers at Keesler AFB are not
adequate to support training after the modifications are complete, and there is currently no
funding projected for replacement or upgrade of either the AWACS or JSTARS trainers. Hand-
on training will shift to the training detachments where upgraded trainers are available.

6.2. Five Level Upgrade Training Requirements. The 5-level CDC requirements were
reaccomplished to update the CDC to include information on E-3 (RSIP) and E-8 (CRP)
modifications. The 5-level CDC is changed to 2A553D and is divided into three courses: D, E,
and F. Course D covers common electronic principles, maintenance procedures, and radar
theory. Course E covers the AWACS radar system and Course F covers the JSTARS
surveillance system. Completion of all three is required for 5-level up-grade.
6.3. Seven Level Upgrade Training Requirements. The 7-level in-residence course remains
mandatory and is changed to J3ACR2A573 001 to incorporate more hands-on training. The
CDC remains 2AX7X
6.4. Continuation Training. The purpose of the continuation training program is to provide
additional training exceeding the minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on
present and future duty positions. MAJCOMs develop a continuation training program that
ensures individuals in the Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems career field receive the


                                               7
necessary training at the appropriate point in their career. The training program will identify
both mandatory and optional training requirements.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs: Enrollment in CCAF
occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an
Associates in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition, CCAF offers the following:
7.1 Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the Basic Instructor Course (BIC) and supervised practice teaching, CCAF
instructors who possess an associates degree or higher may be nominated by their school
commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.
7.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The college uses a competency
based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels:
Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.
7.3. Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
Prior to completing an Associates Degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:
                                                                                                                                Semester Hours
Technical Education ..............................................................................................................            24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ....................................................................                              6
Physical Education.................................................................................................................            4
General Education..................................................................................................................           15
Program Elective....................................................................................................................          15
         Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
         Studies; or General Education
Total ....................................................................................................................................... 64

7.3.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core/Technical Elective subjects/courses.

7.3.2 Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours). Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.
7.3.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours). This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.
7.3.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours). Applicable courses must meet the definition
of General Education Requirement (GER) subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General
Catalog.
7.3.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.
7.4. AETC Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that
is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an Air Education and Training Command


                                                                       8
Instructor should be actively pursuing an associates degree. It is necessary to have at least a
two-year associate degree to maintain technical school accreditation through the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                              9
  8. Career Field Path
  8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table A8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A5X3D Air Force
  Specialty.

                                         Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                        Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                   Rank      Average         Earliest     High Year Of Tenure
                                                                 Sew-On         Sew-On               (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)           Amn       6 months
                                                      A1C      16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                 Amn       6 months
- Minimum 15 months on-the-job training.              A1C      16 months
- Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.         SrA         3 years      28 months            12 Years
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service
  or be a SSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                     Trainer                                                    Certifier
- Qualified and certified to perform the task to    - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and certified
  be trained.                                         to perform the task being certified
- Have attended the formal trainer’s course and     - Attend formal certifier course and appointed in writing by
  appointed in writing by Commander.                  Commander.
                                                    - Be a person other than the trainer.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                  SSgt      7.5 years        3 years            20 Years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
  MDS.
- 18 months OJT.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
- Advanced Technical School.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                TSgt     12.5 years        5 years            24 Years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).                          MSgt       16 years        8 years            26 Years
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                      SMSgt 19.2 years           11 years            28 Years
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
- A percentage of top non-select (for promotion
  to E-8) MSgts attend the SNCOA each year.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  CMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)           CMSgt 21.5 years            14 years            30 Years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
- Must be a resident graduate of SNCOA
  (Active Duty Only).




                                                        10
  8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist:

Table A8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist
Requirements for Upgrade to:                                                                      Y   N
Journeyman
- Has the apprentice completed mandatory CDCs, if available?
- Has the apprentice completed all appropriate 5-level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has the apprentice completed all other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor?
- Has the apprentice completed 15 months training (9 months for retrainees) for award of the 5-
skill level?
- Has the apprentice met mandatory requirements listed in specialty description, AFMAN
   36-2108 (Airman Classification), and CFETP?
- Has the apprentice completed CAMS Course J6AZU00066-058? (Exception: AMC and AMC
  gained ANG/AFRC Personnel).
- Has the apprentice been recommended by their supervisor?
Craftsman
- Has the journeyman achieved the rank of SSgt?
- Has the journeyman completed mandatory CDCs?
- Has the journeyman completed all core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has the journeyman completed all other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor?
- Has the journeyman completed CAMS Course J6AZU00066-062? (Exception: AMC and AMC
  gained ANG/AFRC personnel).
- Has the journeyman attended 7-skill level Craftsman Course? First, they must complete:
   -- All 7-level training requirements listed in the CFETP.
   -- All applicable CDCs.
   -- Exportable course J6AQU2A071 000
   -- A minimum of 12 months UGT (6 months for retrainees).
- Has the journeyman completed a minimum 18 months UGT (12 months for retrainees) for award
of the 7-skill level




  TO: Squadron/CC
  FROM: Squadron Training Manager
  SUBJECT: Upgrade Trainee

  Trainee is prepared to be upgraded and has completed all training requirements.

  _______________________                                _______________________
      Training Manager                                               Supervisor




                                                    11
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award and
retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are
identified in the STS in Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification: The various skill levels in this career field are defined in terms of
tasks and knowledge proficiency requirements for each skill level. They are stated in broad
general terms and establish the standards of performance. The specific task and knowledge
training requirements are identified in the STS in Part II, Section A of the CFETP. Unit work
centers must develop a structured training program to ensure the following requirements are met.
10.1. Apprentice Level Training (3-Level):
10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. To perform duties at the apprentice level, an individual must
be able to understand basic system theory of operation and be able to perform certain
organizational maintenance tasks under close supervision until task certification is complete.
10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: electronic and computer fundamentals, solid
state devices, numbering systems, and principles of radio frequency transmission and reception
applied to AWACS and JSTARS surveillance radar and interrogator systems; concepts and
application of maintenance directives; wiring, logic, and schematic diagrams; digital data
processing; pulse Doppler radar theory; nuclear hardness integrity maintenance; and Air Force
supply procedures.
10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
physics and mathematics is desirable.
10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A533D, completion of a basic airborne surveillance
radar systems maintenance course is mandatory.
10.1.1.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:
10.1.1.4.1 2A553D. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A533D and experience
installing, repairing, testing, or modifying surveillance radar and interrogator systems using
electronic test equipment.
10.1.1.4.2. 2A573D. Experience performing or supervising functions such as manual testing,
installing, repairing, or modifying radar and interrogator systems using test equipment.
10.1.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:
10.1.1.5.1 For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123 Medical
Examination Standards.
10.1.1.5.2. For additional Other entry requirements consult AFMAN 36-2108, Enlisted
Classification.
10.1.1.5.3 For award and retention of AFSCs 2A533D/53D/73D, eligibility for a secret security
clearance is according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
10.1.2. Training Sources. The initial skills courses (see part II section D) are focused to
increase "hands-on" time with task performance as the basic learning foundation. These courses
will provide the required knowledge and qualification training. Initial skills training
encompasses basic system theory and operation, system components, component removal and
installation, introduction to maintenance concepts, general flightline maintenance practices, use



                                               12
of technical publications, maintenance documentation, and support equipment familiarization
and use.
10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training, airmen are assigned to
Keesler AFB for completion of courses E3AQR2A533D 332, Electronic Principles. Airmen will
then attend course J3ABR2A533D XXX at Sheppard AFB. They will then attend a mandatory
aircraft specific hands-on training course at either the Tinker TD or the Robins TD. Upon
graduation from these courses, airmen should attend appropriate airframe specific FTD courses.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training (5-Level):
10.2.1 Specialty Qualification. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, a 5-level must possess
knowledge and skills necessary to maintain avionic systems.
10.2.1.1. Knowledge. An individual must be task qualified on: inspecting Airborne
Surveillance Radar System and Interrogator system components, removal and installation of
system SRUs, repair and replacement of components, BIT/FIT/Diagnostics test, and the use of
test and support equipment. Individuals must be able to apply the proper handling, use and
disposal of hazardous waste and materials according to environmental standards.
10.2.1.2. Education. There is no formal education for upgrade to 2A553D.
10.2.1.3. Training. Requirements for the journeymen level require completion of the 5-level
CDC and completion of the 5-level core tasks specified in the STS.
10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A533D. Also, experience
performing or supervising functions such as removing and installing system LRUs and SRUs,
performing operational checks, and troubleshooting surveillance radar/interrogator/mission
systems.
10.2.1.5. Other. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123 is mandatory.
10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the
core tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current
knowledge base and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.
10.2.3. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed by the unit, utilizing STS, CDCs,
and OJT. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 2A553D, Airborne Surveillance
Radar Systems Journeyman CDC; the 2A553E, Airborne Warning and Control/Interrogator
Systems Journeyman CDC; the 2A553F, Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar Systems
Journeyman CDC; and completion of all 5-level core tasks on one MDS aircraft.
10.3. Craftsman Level Training (7-Level):
10.3.1 Specialty Qualification. In addition to the 5-level qualifications, an individual must
possess advanced skills and knowledge in theory, concepts, principles, and application as they
apply to Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems and the Interrogator System.
10.3.1.1. Knowledge. The 7-level must be able to supervise and train personnel to perform
required maintenance. They must be able to conduct long-range planning and scheduling, and be
able to organize maintenance to ensure effective utilization of available resources. Qualification
is required on advanced repair and inspection techniques; component and system fault isolation
troubleshooting and diagnostics techniques; and repair requirements, procedures and evaluation.
Historical documentation analysis is also required for all 7-levels.
10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional educational requirements beyond those defined
for the apprentice level.



                                               13
10.3.1.3.     Training.      Completion of CDC 2AX7X and the resident 7-level course,
J3ACR2A573 001, at Sheppard AFB TX is mandatory for upgrade to AFSC 2A573D.
10.3.1.4. Experience. Completions of all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one MDS aircraft as
identified in the STS and qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A553D. Also, experience
performing and supervising functions such as analyzing equipment operating characteristics to
isolate malfunctions in Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems and Interrogator Systems.
10.3.1.5. Other. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123 is mandatory..
10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Seven-level upgrade training will be conducted by
certified trainers using AF core tasks, unit/MAJCOM specific courses, and formal 7-level in-
residence course, J3ACR2A573 001 Craftsman Avionics Course. The 7-level CDC and resident
courses are written to provide advanced system/management knowledge and troubleshooting
skills.
10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to 7-level will require completion of all applicable 5- and 7-
level AF core tasks on one MDS, 7-level CDCs, 18 months OJT as a SSgt and completion of the
7-level Craftsman Avionics Course. Completion of AF core tasks, 7-level CDC and 12 months
OJT as a SSgt will be completed before attending the resident course.
10.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-level):
10.4.1 Specialty Qualification. In addition to 7-level qualifications, individuals must possess
advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the management of aircraft
maintenance.
10.4.1.1. Knowledge. The 9-level needs to be an effective leader; must be able to forecast,
budget, and manage unit operations and maintenance (O&M) funding and other assigned
resources; and must be knowledgeable of environmental standards and ensure adherence to the
proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials.
10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional requirements beyond those identified for the
apprentice level.
10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A590, completion of applicable PME courses and
promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.
10.4.1.4. Experience. Experience that is required for award of 2A590 AFSC is qualification in
and possession of AFSC 2A571 or 2A572 or 2A573A/B/C/D. Also, experience managing or
directing repair activities for offensive avionic systems and associated maintenance functions.
10.4.1.5. Other. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123 is mandatory.
10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. The Senior NCO Academy and unit OJT will be
used for training.
10.4.3 Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after completing MAJCOM requirements,
unit OJT and promotion to SMSgt. Individuals will attend the Senior NCO Academy after they
are selected for promotion to SMSgt. Guard and Reserve personnel may use the correspondence
course.

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

11. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints that preclude
optimal/desired training from being developed or conducted. Included is a narrative explanation
of each resource constraint, an impact statement describing the effect on training, the resources
needed, and actions required to satisfy the training requirements.
12. Apprentice Level Training Constraints.


                                               14
12.1. Constraint. None

13. Five Level Training Constraints.
13.1. Constraint. None

14. Seven-Level Training Constraints.
14.1. Constraint. None

SECTION E - TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE

There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                15
PART II

SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) for classes beginning October 2002.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:
2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level. The 7-level in-residence course will not be taught in wartime.
2.2. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies, by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
Core tasks identified with an *R are optional for the AFRC and the ANG. As a minimum,
certification on all shop/flightline core tasks applicable to one Mission Design Series (MDS)
aircraft assigned must be completed for skill level upgrade. Exemptions:
2.2.1. Core tasks that are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not required
for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training)
2.2.2. For units with more than one MDS aircraft, upgrade trainees need only complete core
tasks on a single MDS. MFMs, unit commanders, and/or supervisors may require trainees to
complete core task training on additional MDSs, if desired. If some of these core tasks involve
training in another unit on base, trainees must still complete all core tasks relevant to at least one
MDS. All units are bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate core task
trainees from other units.
2.2.3. Units that use the GO81 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete Core
Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) Computer Based Training (CBT) core tasks. However,
these units must be capable of training CAMS related CBT core tasks for deployment
preparation. This capability ensures GO81 users are capable of operating CAMS prior to
deploying to CAMS using units. This requirement will remain in effect until GO81 and CAMS
are converted to the Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS).
2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification completed
date.
2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. When two
codes are used in columns 4 (e.g. 2b/b), the first code is the established requirement for resident
training on the task/knowledge, and the second code indicates the level of training provided in
the course due to equipment shortages or other resource constraints. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC
listing maintained by the Unit Training Manager for current CDC listing.
2.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.
2.6. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a Job Qualification Standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to
AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level.


                                                 16
"Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following
requirements apply:
2.6.1 Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFMAN 36-2247,
Chapter 5. Automated records, utilizing Core Automated Management System (CAMS) or
Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS)/Global Combat Support System (GCSS),
reflecting this STS may be used and are highly encouraged. The CFETP Section I and Section
II, Part A must be filed in individual records. Use of attachments one, two and five are
mandatory in records. In addition, use of either attachment three or four is required. MAJCOMs
may designate additional core tasks other than those already identified in the CFETP. Identify
duty position requirements by circling (in pencil) the subparagraph number next to the task
statement. As a minimum, complete the following columns, date training completed, trainee
initials, trainer initials, and certifier initials (core tasks only). Trainers may sign off non-core
and non-critical tasks by initialing the trainer's column; third party certification is not required
for non-core and non-critical tasks. There are no approved AFJQS for this AFSC.
2.6.1.1. Converting from Old Document to CFETP. Transcribe records IAW AFMAN 36-
2247. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, conversion of
all training records to this CFETP STS is mandatory. Automated records reflecting this STS
may be used and are highly encouraged. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify
and certify all past and current qualifications.
2.6.1.1.1. For those core and critical tasks previously certified and required in the current duty
position, evaluate current qualifications and when verified, recertify using current date as
completion date, and enter trainee's and certifier's initials. Remember, during the transcription
process no training is taking place. Therefore, the trainer's initials are not required.
2.6.1.1.2. For non-core and non-critical tasks previously certified and required in the current
duty position, evaluate current qualifications and when verified, recertify using current date as
completion date, and enter trainee's and trainer's initials.
2.6.1.1.3. When transcribing previous certification for tasks not required in the current duty
position, carry forward only the previous completion date of certification (not the initials of
another person). If and when transcribed tasks become duty position requirements, recertify
using standard certification procedures.
2.6.1.1.4. The person whose initials appear in the trainer or certifier block during the
transcription process must meet the requirements of their respective roles.
2.6.1.1.5. Upon completion of the transcription process, give the old CFETP to the member.
2.6.1.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available: the supervisor
identifies CFETP Part II training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and
ensures, as a minimum, that trainees cover the mandatory items in AFI 36-2108. CDC
information in all attachments of the CFETP are mandatory for five and seven-level upgrade.
For two-time CDC course exam failures: supervisors identify all Part II items corresponding to
the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee completes a study of references, undergoes
evaluation by the task certifier, and receives certification on the CFETP Part II.
Supervisors must document successful completion of career knowledge prior to submission of
a CDC waiver.
2.6.1.3. Decertification and Recertification. When an airman is found to be unqualified on a
task previously certified for his or her position, the supervisor lines through the previous
certification or deletes previous certification when using automated system. Appropriate


                                                17
remarks are entered on the AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet,
as to the reason for decertification. The individual is recertified (if required) either by erasing
the old entries and writing in the new or by using correction fluid/tape (if the entries were made
in ink) over the previously certified entry.
2.6.2. AF Form 797. When additional items not listed in the CFETP Part II are necessary in the
current duty assignment, enter them on the AF Form 797. Fill out the form IAW AFMAN 36-
2247.
2.6.3. Disposition of Training Records. Upon separation, retirement, commissioning, or
promotion to Master Sergeant (unless otherwise directed by the AFCFM, MAJCOM, unit
commander, or supervisor), give the individual their training records. Also, give individuals
outdated training records after transcribing records. Do not remove any training records that
show past qualifications unless transcribed to a new CFETP. For example, an individual
working in a tool crib or staff position must maintain documented career field qualifications in
case they return to direct maintenance duty. Supervisors must exercise good judgment when
removing training records not needed in current duty positions.
2.7. Specialty Training Standard. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the
Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are
developed at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron by senior NCOs with extensive
practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter
areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher
grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual
responsibilities are in chapter 14 of AFI 36-2606, US Air Force Reenlistment, Retention, and
NCO Status Programs. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.
3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to the
AETC Training Manager at, 365 TRS/TRR, 609 9th Ave., Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-2335, DSN
736-7891. Reference specific STS paragraphs. A customer service information line has been
installed for the supervisors’ convenience to identify graduates who may have received training
on task/knowledge items in this training standard. For a quick response to problems, call our
customer service information line, DSN 736-2574 or e-mail us at, 782trg-tget@sheppard.af.mil.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                                   JOHN W. HANDY, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           DCS/Installations and Logistics

5 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key (Mandatory to file with CFETP Section I and Section II, Part A)
2. Common Maintenance Requirements (Mandatory)
3. E3 AWACS Peculiar Requirements (Mandatory for E3 personnel)
4. E8 JSTARS Peculiar Requirements (Mandatory for E8 personnel)
5. Electronic Fundamentals/Applications (Mandatory)

NOTE: One of attachments 3 or 4 must be filed.




                                                18
                                    THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
                                                                 NAME OF TRAINEE
PRINTED NAME (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                   INITIALS (Written)                 SSAN


                                   PRINTED NAME OF TRAINING/CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS
N/I                                                              N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I




                                                    QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                        PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                                  SCALE        DEFINITION: The individual
                                  VALUE
                                     1         IS EXTREMELY LIMITED. (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to
                                               do most of the task.)
           TASK                      2         IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT. (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest
                                               parts.)
    PERFORMANCE                      3         IS COMPETENT. (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)

       LEVELS                        4         IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT. (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                                               others how to do the task.)
                                     a         KNOWS NOMENCLATURE. (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.)

        *TASK                        b          KNOWS PROCEDURES. (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task.)

      KNOWLEDGE                      c         KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES. (Can identify why and when the task must be done and
                                               why each step is needed.)
          LEVELS                     d         KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY. (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)

                                     A          KNOWS FACTS. (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)

       **SUBJECT                     B          KNOWS PRINCIPLES. (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles
                                               about the subject.)
      KNOWLEDGE                      C          KNOWS ANALYSIS. (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)

        LEVELS                       D          KNOWS EVALUATION. (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                                               subject.)
                                                          EXPLANATIONS

    A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

-     This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.




                                                                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 1


                                                                         19
     ATTACHMENT 1


20
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                              2A5X3D
                                                               2.       3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                Core                                                             Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                                            Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                              A    B        A         B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                      3       5         7
                                                                                                                                 Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level   Level     Level
                                                               5    7    Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                           Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
NOTE 1: Attachment 2 of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that are taught in the 3-level course. The MDS
        specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with attachment 2 to identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident wartime course. The 7 level in-residence course is not taught in wartime.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 4: Items marked in columns 2a or 2b marked with a */R are optional core tasks for ANG and AFRC.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager,
        DSN 487-8916.
A2.1. GENERAL ORGANIZATION MAINTENANCE
      TR: TO 1E-3A-2-7, 1E-3A-2-1-1
A2.1.1. Aircraft Familiarization
A2.1.1.1.   Major structure areas                                                                                                  -      -      -      -
A2.1.1.2.   Major systems                                                                                                          -      -      -      -
A2.1.1.3.   Aircraft egress procedures                                                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.1.2. GENERAL MAINTENANCE/PRODUCTION
        TEAM MAINTENANCE TASKS
A2.1.2.1.   Ensure aircraft safe for maintenance                                                                                   -       -     -      -
A2.1.2.2.   Static grounding                                                                                                       -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.3.   Remove/Install maintenance panels                                                                                      -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.4.   Open/close engine cowlings                                                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.5.   Open/close nose radome                                                                                                 -       -     -      -
A2.1.2.6.   Operate hydraulics                                                                                                     -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.7.   Launch/Recover aircraft                                                                                                -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.8.   Marshall aircraft                                                                                                      -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.9.   Aircraft tow
A2.1.2.9.1. Wing walking                                                                                                           -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.9.2. Brake operator                                                                                                         -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.9.3. Tow vehicle operator                                                                                                   -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.9.4. Tow supervisor                                                                                                         -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.10. Refuel/Defuel
A2.1.2.10.1. Panel operator                                                                                                        -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.10.2. Supervisor                                                                                                            -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.10.3. Fire guard                                                                                                            -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.11. Use Special Purpose Vehicles
A2.1.2.11.1. High Reach                                                                                                            -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.11.2. De-Icier                                                                                                              -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.11.3. Operate cranes                                                                                                        -      -      -      -

                                                                                                                                         Attachment 2
                                                                        21
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                         2A5X3D
                                                           2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                            Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                          A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                 3       5         7
                                                                                                                            Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                            Level   Level     Level
                                                           5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                      Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.1.2.12. Jack aircraft
A2.1.2.12.1. Jack Supervisor                                                                                                  -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.12.2. Jack Member                                                                                                      -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.13. Perform aircraft phase/isochronal                                                                                  -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.14.     Maintain tool crib                                                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.15.     Debrief                                                                                                        -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.16.     Dispatch maintenance crews                       *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.17.     Aircraft deicing                                                                                               -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.18.     Aircraft wash                                                                                                  -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.19.     Connect external cooling air                                                                                   -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.20.     APPLY power using
A2.1.2.20.1. APU                                                                                                              -      -      -      -
             TR: T.O. 1E-3A-2-71-1
A2.1.2.20.2. Generator Set                                                                                                    -      -      -      -
A2.1.2.20.3. Aircraft/Equipment hazardous condition tags                                                                      -      -      -      -
             TR: T.O.00-20-5
A2.2. CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
      TR. AFI 36-2108, AFVA 39-1
A2.2.1. Progression in career ladder 2A5X3D                                                                                  A       -      -      -

A2.2.2. Duties of 2A5X3D 3-, 5-, and 7-level personnel                                                                       A       -      -      -

A2.3.   SECURITY
A2.3.1. Information Security
        TR: AFI 31-401, 31-501, AFPD 31-4, 31-5
        Applicable directives
A2.3.1.1.    Classification of information                                                                                   A       -      -      B
A2.3.1.2.    Prevention of security violations                                                                               A       -      -      -
A2.3.1.3.    Access to classified information                                                                                A       -      -      B
A2.3.2. Physical Security
        TR: AFI 31-101V1, DODR 5200-8
A2.3.2.1.    Control of restricted areas                                                                                      -      -      -      -
A2.3.2.2.    Security alert reporting                                                                                        A       -      -      -
A2.3.2.3.    Make entries on cabinet, safes, and room                                                                         -      -      -      B
             security forms
A2.3.2.4. Proper handling of classified materials                                                                            A       -      -      -
A2.3.3. Communications Security (COMSEC)
        TR: AFI 31-401, DOD 5200.1-4
A2.3.3.1.    COMSEC                                                                                                          A       -      -      B

                                                                                                                                    Attachment 2
                                                                    22
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                          2A5X3D
                                                            2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                  3       5         7
                                                                                                                             Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                             Level   Level     Level
                                                            5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.3.3.2.   Specific 2A5X3D vulnerabilities                                                                                   A       -      -      -
A2.3.4. Operations Security (OPSEC)
        TR: AFI 10-1101, AFPD 10-11;
        Applicable directives
A2.3.4.1.   Goals of OPSEC program                                                                                            A       A      -      B
A2.3.4.2.   Relationship to other programs                                                                                     -      -      -      -
A2.3.4.3.   Specific 2A5X3D vulnerabilities                                                                                   A       -      -      -
A2.3.4.4.   Function of CILS (critical information lists)                                                                     A       -      -      -
A2.3.5.     Computer security (COMPUSEC)                                                                                      A        -     -      -
A2.4. AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
      HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
      TR: AFI 91-series; TO 31, 33 series
A2.4.1. AFOSH standards for AFSC 2A5X3D                          *                                                            A       -      -      -
A2.4.2. Maintain safe work area                                                                                               A       -      -      -
A2.4.3. Hazards/Safety Practices of AFSC 2A5X3D
A2.4.3.1.   RF energy                                                                                                         A       B      -      -
A2.4.3.2.   Noise                                                                                                             A       B      -      -
A2.4.3.3.   Compressed gases                                                                                                  A       B      -      -
A2.4.3.4.   Electrical power                                                                                                  A       B      -      -
A2.4.3.5.   Hydraulic power                                                                                                    -      -      -      -
A2.4.3.6.   Hazardous liquids                                                                                                 A       B      -      -
A2.4.3.7.   High Voltage                                                                                                      A       B      -      -
A2.4.3.8.   Aircraft                                                                                                          A       B      -      -
A2.4.3.9.   AGE equipment                                                                                                     A       -      -      -
A2.4.3.10. Electrical equipment                                                                                               A       B      -      -
A2.4.3.11. CRTs                                                                                                               A       B      -      -
A2.4.3.12. Lifting Devices                                                                                                     -      -      -      -
A2.4.3.13. FOD prevention program                                                                                             A       -      -      -
A2.4.3.14. AF Nuclear Surety Program                                                                                           -       -     -      -
A2.4.3.15. Cleaning Agents                                                                                                    A       B      -      -
A2.5. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND WASTE
      HANDLING ACCORDING TO ENVIRONMENTAL
      STANDARDS
      TR: AFI 23-504, EPA & State Regulations
A2.5.1. Types of hazardous material /fluids                                                                                   A       B      -      -
A2.5.2. Handling                                                                                                              A       B      -      B
A2.5.3. Storage and labeling                                                                                                  A       B      -      -

                                                                                                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                     23
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                          2A5X3D
                                                            2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                  3       5         7
                                                                                                                             Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                             Level   Level     Level
                                                            5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.5.4. Disposal                                                                                                              A       B      -      B
A2.5.5. Material Safety Data Sheet                                                                                            A       B      -      -
A2.5.6. Report Hazard Material Spills                                                                                          -      -      -      -
A2.6. MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
      TR: ACCI 21-101
A2.6.1. Basic functions and responsibilities of the                                                                           A       B      -      B
        maintenance complex
A2.6.2. Maintenance Data Collection                                                                                           A       B      -      -
A2.6.3. Automated Maintenance System                                                                                           -      -      -      -
A2.6.4. Maintenance accountability                                                                                             -      B      -      B
A2.6.5. Operational Risk Management                                                                                           A       -      -      B
A2.6.6. Logistics/Resource Maintenance Management
A2.6.6.1.   Logistics Management                                 *                                                             -      A      -      B
A2.6.6.2.   Resource Management                                  *                                                             -      -      -      B
A2.6.6.3.   Standard Publication Use                                                                                           -      A      -      -

A2.6.6.4. Deficiency Reporting                                                                                                 -      A      -      B
A2.6.6.5.   Product Improvement Working Group, Test                                                                            -      -      -      A
            Planning Working Group, System Training Plan,
            and Product Improvement Review
A2.6.6.6.   Financial Plan                                                                                                     -      -      -      A
A2.6.6.7.   SMR Codes (AFTO Form 135)                                                                                          -      A      -      B
A2.6.6.8.   Modification Proposals (AF Form 1067)                                                                              -      -      -      A
A2.6.6.9.   Aircraft/Equipment Status Monitoring                 *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.6.6.10. Maintenance QPM Relationships (repeat/recur,                                                                        -      A      -      B
           fix, break, cann rates etc.)
A2.6.6.11. FOD Program Manager                                                                                                 -      -      -      -
A2.6.6.12. Mobility (hazard declarations)                                                                                      -      -      -      -
A2.6.6.13. Expediter, Production Supervisor and                                                                                -      A      -      B
           Flight Chief Duties and Responsibilities
A2.6.6.14. Maintenance Incident Investigation and                                                                              -      -      -      B
           Prevention
A2.6.6.15. AFMC Responsibility                                                                                                 -      -      -      -
A2.6.6.16. Mission Essential System Listing                                                                                    -      A      -      B
A2.6.6.17. Warranty Program                                                                                                    -      A      -      B
A2.6.6.18. TMDE Program                                                                                                        -      -      -      A
A2.6.6.19. IDEA Program                                                                                                        -      -      -      -
A2.6.6.20. Repair Cycle Asset Program                                                                                          -      A      -      B

                                                                                                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                     24
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                     2A5X3D
                                                       2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                        Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                      A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                             3       5         7
                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                        Level   Level     Level
                                                       5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                  Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.7. MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION
      TR: AFI 21-101
A2.7.1. Maintenance systems                                                                                              A       B      -       -
A2.7.2. Aircraft inspection systems                                                                                      A       B      -       -
A2.7.3. Use Maintenance Data Collection Forms                                                                             -      -      -       -
A2.7.4. Historical Records                                                                                                -      -      -      A
A2.7.5. Status Reports                                                                                                    -      -      -      A
A2.7.6. Configuration Management (aircraft/equipment                                                                      -      A      -      B
        records)
A2.7.7. Operate Core Automated Maintenance
        Systems (CAMS)
A2.7.7.1.   Create discrepancy                         *                                                                 2b      -      -       -

A2.7.7.2.   Schedule discrepancy                       *                                                                 2b      -      -       -

A2.7.7.3.   Defer discrepancy                          *                                                                 2b      -      -       -
A2.7.7.4.   Transfer discrepancy                       *                                                                 2b      -      -       -
A2.7.7.5.   Sign off discrepancy
A2.7.7.5.1. Cannibalization                            *                                                                 2b      -      -       -
A2.7.7.5.2. Action taken code “P”                      *                                                                 2b      -      -       -
A2.7.7.5.3. Action taken code “Q”                      *                                                                 2b      -      -       -
A2.7.7.5.4. Action taken code “R”                      *                                                                 2b      -      -       -

A2.7.7.5.5. Special Inspections                                                                                           -      -      -       -
A2.7.7.5.6. Supply transactions                                                                                          2b      -      -      A
A2.7.7.5.7. Maintenance/Supervision Transactions                                                                          -      -      -      A

A2.7.8. INTEGRATED MAINTENANCE DATA
        SYSTEM (IMDS)
        TR: AFI 21-101
A2.7.8.1.   IMDS training subsystem
A2.7.8.1.1. Purpose of the IMDS training subsystem                                                                       A/-    B/-     -      B/-
A2.7.8.1.2. Document Master Task List (MTL)                                                                               -      -      -      B/-
A2.7.8.1.3. Perform Ad Hoc inquiry                                                                                        -      -      -      B/-
A2.7.8.1.4. Identify duty position requirements                                                                           -      -      -      B/-
A2.7.8.1.5. Document task certification                                                                                  A/-    B/-     -      B/-
A2.7.8.2.   IMDS Maintenance Data Collection (MDC)
A2.7.8.2.1. Purpose of MDC process                                                                                       A/-    B/-     -       -
A2.7.8.3.   Use IMDS to:
A2.7.8.3.1. Create jobs                                *                                                                3c/-     -      -       -

                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                                                25
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                          2A5X3D
                                                            2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                             Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                           A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                  3       5         7
                                                                                                                             Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                             Level   Level     Level
                                                            5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                       Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.7.8.3.2. Transfer jobs                                   *                                                                2b/-     -      -      -
A2.7.8.3.3. Clear jobs                                      *                                                                3c/-     -      -      -
A2.7.8.3.4. Document component maintenance actions          *                                                                2b/-      -     -      -
A2.7.8.3.5. Document Cannibalization                        *                                                                2b/-     -      -      -
A2.7.8.3.6. Use Portable Maintenance Aid (PMA)              *                                                                2b/-      -     -      -
A2.7.8.3.7. Order Parts                                     *                                                                2b/-     -      -      -
A2.7.8.3.8. Review Maintenance Status                       *                                                                2b/-     -      -      -
A2.7.8.3.9. Review Equipment Status                         *                                                                2b/-     -      -      -
A2.7.8.3.10. Access and print all open events assigned to                                                                    2b/-     -      -      -
             workcenter

A2.7.8.3.11. Job Data Documentation (JDD)                                                                                      -      -      -      -
A2.7.9. Material Deficiency Reporting System
A2.7.9.1.   Deficiency Reporting System                                                                                       A       B      -      B
A2.7.9.2.   Initiate software improvement/deficiency                                                                           -      -      -      B
            report
A2.7.10. Use aircraft/equipment maintenance forms
         TR: 00-20-5
A2.7.10.1. 781A                                             *                                                                 2b      -      -
A2.7.10.2. 781B                                                                                                                -      -      -      -
A2.7.10.3. 781C                                                                                                                -      -      -      -
A2.7.10.4. 781F                                                                                                                -      -      -      -
A2.7.10.5. 781H                                                                                                                -      -      -      -
A2.7.10.6. 781J                                                                                                                -      -      -      -
A2.7.10.7. 781K                                             *                                                                 2b      -      -      A
A2.7.10.8. 781L                                                                                                                -      -      -      -
A2.7.10.9. 781M                                                                                                                -      -      -      -
A2.7.10.10. AFTO Form 244/245                                                                                                  -      A      -      B
A2.7.10.11. AF Form 939/1492                                                                                                   -       -     -      -
A2.8.   SUPERVISION
A2.8.1. Orient new personnel                                     *                                                             -      -      -      -
        TR: AFI-36-2108, 36-2201
A2.8.2. Assign personnel to work assignments                     *                                                             -      -      -      -
        TR: AFI 21-101 and applicable command
        directives
A2.8.3. Plan work assignments and priorities                     *                                                             -      -      -      -
        TR: AFI 21-101 and applicable command
        directives

                                                                                                                                     Attachment 2
                                                                     26
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            2A5X3D
                                                              2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                               Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                    3       5         7
                                                                                                                               Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                               Level   Level     Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.8.4. Schedule work assignments and priorities                   *                                                             -      -      -      -
        TR: AFI 21-101 and applicable command
        directives
A2.8.5. Coordinate work assignments                                *                                                             -      -      -      -
        TR: AFI 21-101 and applicable command
        directives
A2.8.6. Establish
        TR: AFI 21-101 and applicable command
        directives
A2.8.6.1. Work methods                                             *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.8.6.2. Controls                                                 *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.8.6.3. Performance Standards                                    *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.8.7. Evaluate work performance                                  *                                                             -      -      -      -
        TR: AFI 21-101 and applicable command
        directives
A2.8.8. Help resolve technical problems                            *                                                             -      -      -      -
        TR: AFIs 36-2101, 36-2201
A2.8.9. Initiate actions to correct substandard performance        *                                                             -      -      -      -
        TR: AFIs 36-2903, -2907, -3202, -3208
A2.8.10. Counsel personnel and help resolve individual             *                                                             -      -      -      -
         problems
         TR: AFP 36-2618
A2.8.11. Resource Protection                                       *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.8.12. Supervise
         TR: AFMAN 36-2108; AFIs 36-2201, 36-2103
A2.8.12.1. Maintenance actions                                     *                                                             -      -      -      B
A2.8.12.2. Inspection actions                                      *                                                             -      -      -      B
A2.8.13.    Analyze
A2.8.13.1. Maintenance reports and charts                                                                                        -      -      -      -
A2.8.13.2. Inspection reports and charts                                                                                         -      -      -      -
A2.8.14.    Prepare
A2.8.14.1. Maintenance inspection reports and charts                                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.8.14.2. Organization and functional charts                                                                                    -      -      -      -
A2.8.15.    Justify
            TR: AFI 21-101 and applicable command
            directives
A2.8.15.1. Personnel manning requirements                                                                                        -      -      -      -
A2.8.15.2. Equipment Authorizations                                                                                              -      -      -      -
A2.8.16.    Recommend policy changes on use of
            TR: AFI 21-101 and applicable command
            directives

                                                                                                                                       Attachment 2
                                                                       27
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                         2A5X3D
                                                           2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                            Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                          A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                 3       5         7
                                                                                                                            Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                            Level   Level     Level
                                                           5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                      Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.8.16.1. Personnel                                                                                                          -      -      -      -
A2.8.16.2. Equipment                                                                                                          -      -      -      -
A2.8.17.     Statement of charges                                                                                             -      -      -      -
            TR: DODR 700-14V4, DOD 7200.1
A2.8.18.     Perform Reports Of Survey                                                                                        -      -      -      -
            TR: DODR 700-14V4, DOD 7200.1
A2.8.19.      Aircraft Scheduling
            TR: AFI 21-101. Applicable MAJCOM
            Instructions
A2.8.19.1. Status reporting                                                                                                   -      -      -      -
A2.8.19.2. Flying/maintenance plan                                                                                            -      -     B       -
A2.9.   TRAINING
        TR: AFI 36-2201
A2.9.1. Evaluate personnel for need of training                                                                               -      -      -      -
A2.9.2. Plan and supervise OJT/EST:
A2.9.2.1.   Prepare JQSs (AF Form 797s)                                                                                       -       -     -      -
A2.9.2.2.   Conduct Training                                    *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.9.2.3.   Counsel Trainees on their progress                  *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.9.3. Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)        *                                                            A       -      -      B
A2.9.4. Specialty Training Standard (STS)                       *                                                            A       -      -      B
A2.9.5. Occupational Survey Report (OSR)                                                                                      -      -      -      B
A2.9.6. Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW)                                                                              -      -      -      B
A2.9.7. Monitor effectiveness of training
A2.9.7.1.   Career knowledge upgrade                            *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.9.7.2.   Job proficiency upgrade                             *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.9.7.3.   Qualification Training                              *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.9.7.4.   Maintain training records                           *                                                             -      -      -      B
A2.9.7.5.   Evaluate effectiveness of training programs         *                                                             -      -      -      -

A2.9.7.6.   Recommend personnel for training                    *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.10. TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
       TR: TO 0-1-01, 00-5-1, 00-5-2, 00-5-15, 00-5-17,
       00-5-18, 00-20-1, 00-20-5, 80-00-1
A2.10.1.    Scope and application of the technical order                                                                     A       B      -      -
system
A2.10.2.    Technical Order (TO) Management                                                                                   -      -      -      B
A2.10.3.    Use technical order indexes                                                                                       -      -      -      -
A2.10.4.    Use technical orders                                                                                             2b      -      -      -


                                                                                                                                    Attachment 2
                                                                    28
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            2A5X3D
                                                              2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                               Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                    3       5         7
                                                                                                                               Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                               Level   Level     Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.10.5.     Technical order improvement/ deficiency report                                                                     A       B      -      -
A2.10.6.     Scope and application of the Computer                                                                               -      -      -      -
           Program Identification Number (CPIN)
           system
A2.10.7.     Use CPIN compendium                                                                                                 -      -      -      -
A2.10.8.     Maintain technical order files                                                                                      -      -      -      -
A2.10.9.     Time Compliance TOs                                                                                                A       -      -      B
A2.11. SUPPLY DISCIPLINE
       TR: AFI 21-101
A2.11.1. Supply principles                                                                                                       -      -      -      -
A2.11.2.     Property accountability and responsibility                                                                         A       B      -      -
A2.11.3.    Principles of equipment authorization and                                                                            -      -      -      -
           management
A2.11.4.     Special requisitions                                                                                                -      -      -      -
A2.11.5.     Back order verification                               *                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.11.6.     Use equipment condition tags                                                                                       1b      -      -      -
A2.11.7.     Use issue/turn-in requests                                                                                          -      -      -      -
A2.11.8. Maintenance Supply Concept                                                                                              -      -      -      -
A2.11.9. Supply Documents Management                                                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.11.10. Equipment Account Management                                                                                           -      -      -      -
A2.11.11. Status of Reports and Training (SORTS)                                                                                 -      -      -      A
A2.11.12. Priority System                                          *                                                             -      -      -      B
A2.11.13. Repair Cycle Assets                                                                                                    -      -      -      -
A2.11.14. Standard Base Supply System (SBSS)                                                                                     -       -     -      -
A2.11.15. FEDLOG                                                                                                                 -      -      -      -
A2.11.16. Classified Asset Handling                                                                                              -      A      -      -
A2.11.17. Land Mobile Radios, Pagers, and Cell Phones                                                                            -      -      -      -
A2.11.18. Agile Logistics                                                                                                        -      -      -      -
A2.11.19. Depot level repairable                                                                                                 -      -      -      -
A2.11.20. Use supply products
A2.11.20.1. DO4 (Daily Document Register)                                                                                        -      -      -      -
A2.11.20.2. D18 (Priority Monitor List)                                                                                          -      -      -      -
A2.11.20.3. M30 (Due-out Validation Listing)                                                                                     -      -      -      -
A2.11.20.4. D23                                                                                                                  -      -      -      -




                                                                                                                                       Attachment 2
                                                                       29
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                2A5X3D
                                                                  2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                   Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                 A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                        3       5         7
                                                                                                                                   Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level   Level     Level
                                                                  5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                             Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.12. FUNDAMENTALS ON EQUIPMENT
       MAINTENANCE
       TR: Applicable aircraft –1 and –2 series TO

A2.12.1.     Common hand tools                                                                                                      A       -      -      -
A2.12.2.     Use torque indicating devices                                                                                          A       -      -      -
A2.12.3.     Use special purpose tools                                                                                               -      -      -      -
A2.12.4.     Protection procedures when handling electrostatic                                                                      A       B      -      -
           devices
A2.12.5. Use of panel sealant                                                                                                        -      -      -      -
A2.12.6.     Identify types of corrosion and control techniques                                                                      -      -      -      -
A2.12.7.     CTK inventory and inspection procedures                                                                                A       -      -      -
A2.12.8.     Use safetying devices
A2.12.8.1. Safety wire                                                                                                               -      -      -      -
A2.12.8.2. Shear wire                                                                                                                -      -      -      -
A2.13. FUNDAMENTALS OF AVIONICS SYSTEMS
       MAINTENANCE
       TR: Applicable aircraft –1 and –2 series TO
A2.13.1.     Principles                                                                                                              -      -      -      -
A2.13.2.     Nuclear hardness maintenance and inspections                                                                            -      -      -      -

           TR: Applicable system JG-00-1, 1-1A-14
A2.13.3.     Source of EMI
A2.13.3.1. Identify                                                                                                                  -      A      -      -
A2.13.3.2. Locate                                                                                                                    -      -      -      -
A2.13.3.3. Eliminate                                                                                                                 -      A      -      -
A2.13.4.     Data Bus Principles/Maintenance Practices
A2.13.4.1. Local Area Networks (OWS-LAN) 802.3                                                                                      A       B      -      -
A2.13.4.2. MIL-STD-1553A                                                                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.13.4.3. MIL-STD-1553B                                                                                                            A       B      -      -
A2.13.4.4. RS-232                                                                                                                   A       B      -      -
A2.13.4.5. RS-422                                                                                                                   A       B      -      -
A2.13.4.6. Fiber Optics                                                                                                             A       -      -      -
A2.13.4.7. Troubleshoot data buss                                                                                                    -      -      -      -
A2.14. GENERAL RADAR
A2.14.1.     THEORY OF OPERATION
A2.14.1.1. Antenna systems                                                                                                          A       B      -      -


                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                                                           30
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                   2A5X3D
                                                     2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                      Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                    A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                           3       5         7
                                                                                                                      Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                      Level   Level     Level
                                                     5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.14.1.2. Synthetic Aperture Radar                                                                                    A       A      -      -
A2.14.2.    Frequency Generation
A2.14.2.1. Operating Frequencies                                                                                       A       B      -      -

A2.14.2.2. Local Oscillator Frequencies                                                                                A       B      -      -

A2.14.2.3. Intermediate Frequencies                                                                                    A       B      -      -

A2.14.3.   Amplification/Transmitters
A2.14.3.1. Pulsing                                                                                                     A       B      -      -

A2.14.3.2. Continuous Wave (CW)                                                                                        A       B      -      -

A2.14.3.3. Pulse Repetition Time/ Pulse Repetition                                                                     A       B      -      -
           Frequency
A2.14.4.   Receiver Processing
A2.14.4.1. IF Mixing                                                                                                   A       B      -      -

A2.14.4.2. Analog to Digital Conversions                                                                               A       B      -      -

A2.14.4.3. Clutter Processing                                                                                          A       B      -      -

A2.14.4.4. Pulse Compression/Expansion                                                                                 A       B      -      -

A2.14.4.5. Doppler Processing                                                                                          A       B      -      -

A2.14.4.6. Timing and Synchronization                                                                                  A       B      -      -

A2.15. GENERAL COMPUTER PRINCIPLES
A2.15.1.    Central Processing Unit                                                                                    A       B      -      -
A2.15.2 . Memory Storage Devices                                                                                       A       B      -      -
A2.15.3. Modem/Handshaker                                                                                               -      -      -      -
A2.15.4.    Power Supply                                                                                               A       B      -      -
A2.15.5.    Controls and Displays                                                                                      A       B      -      -
A2.16. GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (GPS)
A2.16.1.    Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                A       -      -      -
A2.16.2.    Theory of Operation                                                                                        A       -      -      -
A2.16.3.    System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                  A       -      -      -
A2.17. INERTIAL NAVIGATION SYSTEM
A2.17.1.    Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                A       -      -      -
A2.17.2.    Theory of Operation                                                                                        A       -      -      -
A2.17.3.    System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                  A       -      -      -
A2.18. AIRCRAFT WIRING
A2.18.1.    Multiconductor                                                                                              -      -      -      -
A2.18.2.    Coaxial                                                                                                     -      -      -      -


                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                                              31
COMMON TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                   2A5X3D
                                                     2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Core                                                            Used To Indicate
                                                      Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                    A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B        C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                           3       5         7
                                                                                                                      Skill   Skill     Skill
                                                                                                                      Level   Level     Level
                                                     5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)  (1)     (2)
                                                                Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC Crse CDC
A2.18.3. Triaxial                                                                                                       -      -      -      -
A2.18.4. Nuclear hardened                                                                                               -      -      -      -
A2.18.5.   Twisted Pair                                                                                                 -      -      -      -
A2.18.6.   Single Conductor                                                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.19. Remove/Install Common Electrical Components
A2.19.1.   Switches                                                                                                     -      -      -      -
A2.19.2.   Relays                                                                                                       -      -      -      -
A2.19.3.   Circuit breakers                                                                                             -      -      -      -
A2.19.4.   Terminal/modular blocks                                                                                      -      -      -      -
A2.19.5.   Capacitors/resistors/diodes                                                                                  -      -      -      -
A2.19.6.   Lights/light bulbs                                                                                           -      -      -      -
A2.19.7.   Fans/blowers                                                                                                 -      -      -      -
A2.19.8.   Transformers                                                                                                 -      -      -      -

                                                 SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This section is changed extensively and reflects the conversion of the 2A1X4 (on/off equipment) AFSC to the
2A5X3D on-equipment AFSC. The in-residence 3-level course increases the use of on-equipment forms and the
use of CAMS to document on-equipment maintenance. It is expanded to include data bus principles, general
computer theory, global positioning systems, and inertial navigation systems. The use of CAMS to document
off-equipment maintenance is deleted.
One hundred and eight tasks are added to the 5 and 7-level CDC requirements 92 tasks are deleted and nine tasks
have changes to the proficiency code.
Supervisors should review this section in its entirety for additions and deletions.




                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                                              32
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            2A5X3D
                                                            2.        3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                             Core                                                             To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                            Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                            A    B        A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                   3       5          7
                                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                              Level   Level      Level
                                                             5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                        Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
NOTE 1: Asterisks in column 2A and 2B indicate minimum mandatory requirements for upgrade to the applicable skill level. Items identified with an
        */R are optional for AFRES and ANG.
NOTE 2: Where AFI 21-101 technical references are quoted, applicable MAJCOM/Multi-command regulations also apply.
A3.1 Technical Order System
     TR: TO 00-5-1
A3.1.1 Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS)                                                                             A       B       -        -

A3.2   SYSTEMS FUNCTIONAL ANALYSIS
       INCLUDING PURPOSE, OPERATION, SIGNAL
       PATHS, SIGNAL DISTRIBUTION AND
       MISSION TIE-IN
A3.2.1 Aircraft support systems
A3.2.1.1   E-3 Power requirements                                                                                              A        -      -        -
           TR: TO 1E-3A-2-1-1
A3.2.1.2   E-3 Cooling Systems                                                                                                 A        -      -        -
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-1-2,
           1E-3A-43-2-93-3-15 or 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-22
A3.2.2 Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS)
A3.2.2.1   RSIP
A3.2.2.1.1 Radar Control and Maintenance Console
           (RCMC)
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-17
A3.2.2.1.1.1 Screen Hierarchy                                                                                                   -      B       -        -
A3.2.2.1.1.2 Fast Fourier Transformer                                                                                           -      B       -        -
A3.2.2.1.1.3 Plan Position Indicator                                                                                            -      B       -        -
A3.2.2.1.1.4 RCDU Controls and Indicators                                                                                      A       B       -        -
A3.2.2.1.2 Surveillance Radar Computer (SRC) Cabinet
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-18, 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-
           19
A3.2.2.1.2.1 Radar Interface Adapter Unit (RIAU)                                                                               A       B       -        -
A3.2.2.1.2.2 Adaptive Signal Processor (ASP)                                                                                   A       B       -        -
A3.2.2.1.2.3 Radar Data Processor (RDP)                                                                                        A       B       -        -
A3.2.2.1.2.3.1 Radar Computer                                                                                                  A       B       -        -
A3.2.2.1.2.3.2 Radar Disk Assembly                                                                                             A       B       -        -
A3.2.2.1.2.3.3 Radar Power Supplies                                                                                            A       B       -        -
A3.2.2.1.3 AWACS Surveillance System                                                                                           A       B
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-22
A3.2.2.1.4 System fault analysis (DATA COMM)                                                                                   A       B
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-5


                                                                                                                                      Attachment 3
                                                                      33
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                    2A5X3D
                                                     2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                      Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                      Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                    A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                           3       5          7
                                                                                                                      Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                      Level   Level      Level
                                                     5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.2.2.1.5 Stable Local Oscillator (STALO)                                                                             A       B
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-23
A3.2.2.1.6 Synchronizer                                                                                                A       B
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-24
A3.2.2.1.7 Transmitter group                                                                                           A       B
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-26
A3.2.2.1.8 Antenna group                                                                                               A       B
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-25
A3.2.2.1.9 Analog receiver                                                                                             A       B
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-9
A3.2.2.1.10 Environmental Control Subsystems                                                                           A       B
            TR: TO 1E-3A-43-1-1, 1E-3A-43-2-93-3,
           1E-3A-43-2-93-3-25, 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-26
A3.2.2.1.11 Maritime Surveillance Capability (MSC)                                                                     A       B
          Receiver
          TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-10
A3.2.2.1.12 Digital Land Mass Blanker (DLMB)                                                                           A       B
            TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-27
A3.2.3 Interrogator System
       TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-5
A3.2.3.1   Interrogation Friend or Foe                                                                                 A       B       -        -
A3.2.3.2   Antenna group                                                                                               A       B       -        -
A3.2.4 E17 Cabin Components
A3.2.4.1   RTDP                                                                                                        A       B       -        -
A3.2.4.2   RT                                                                                                          A       B       -        -
A3.2.4.3   Power supplies                                                                                              A       B       -        -
A3.2.4.4   RF Transmission Switch                                                                                      A       B       -        -
A3.2.4.5   OBTM&M                                                                                                      A       B       -        -
A3.3   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
       TR: APPLICABLE 31 & 33 Series TO
A3.3.1 General Purpose Support Equipment
A3.3.1.1   Principles of support equipment
A3.3.1.1.1 Purpose                                                                                                     A        -      -        -
A3.3.1.1.2 Characteristics                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A3.3.2 Common test equipment
A3.3.2.1     Milliohmmeters                                                                                            A       B       -        -
A3.3.2.2   Power meters


                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                              34
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      2A5X3D
                                                       2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                        Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                      A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                             3       5          7
                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level   Level      Level
                                                       5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.3.2.2.1 Perform measurements                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.2.2 Perform calculations                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.3     Decade resister box                                                                                          -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.4     Megaohmmeter                                                                                                 -      B       -        -
A3.3.2.5     Sweep Oscillator                                                                                             -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.6     X-Y Recorder                                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.7     Network Analyzer                                                                                             -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.8     1553 Bus Analyzer                                                                                            -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.9    Use Frequency Counter                                                                                         -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.10 Use Reflectometer                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.11 Oscilloscope                                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.12 Spectrum Analyzer                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A3.3.2.13 Logic Analyzer                                                                                                  -      A       -        -
A3.3.3 Airborne Warning and Control Systems
A3.3.3.1   Support equipment
           TR: 1E-3A-43-2-93 Series TO
A3.3.3.1.1 Analog Receiver Test Set (RIB)                                                                                 -       -      -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-17-60-1
A3.3.3.1.2 Radar Test Set AN/UPM-155                                                                                      -       -      -        -
           TR: TO 33A1-3-426-3, 12P4-1A-122
A3.3.3.1.3 Radar Test Set AN/APM-401                                                                                      -       -      -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-36-35-1
A3.3.3.1.4 Antenna Control Drive Test Set AN/APM-402                                                                     A       A       -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-47-55-1
A3.3.3.1.5 Air Pressure Warning Alarm System SDU-34                                                                      A        -      -        -
           TR: TO 1E-3A-2-1-1
A3.3.3.1.6 Ion Pump Power Supplies                                                                                       A        -      -        -
            TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3,
            1E-3A-43-2-93-3-13 or 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-26
A3.3.3.1.7 Monorail Assembly                                                                                             A        -      -        -
            TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.3.3.1.8 WATTS Test Box                                                                                                 -       -      -        -
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-93-4
A3.3.3.1.9 Ground Power
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-1-1
A3.3.3.1.9.1 TRIELECTRON                                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A3.3.3.1.9.2 INET                                                                                                         -       -      -        -

                                                                                                                                Attachment 3
                                                                35
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                        2A5X3D
                                                         2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                        A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                               3       5          7
                                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level   Level      Level
                                                         5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                    Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.3.3.1.10 Environmental Systems
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-1-1
A3.3.3.1.10.1 Air Conditioning Equipment (ACE) Cart                                                                         -       -      -        -
A3.3.3.1.10.2 Liquid Cooling System (LCS) Cart                                                                              -       -      -        -
A3.3.3.1.10.3 SF-6
A3.3.3.1.10.3.1    SF-6 Ground Cart                                                                                        A        -      -        -
                   TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.3.3.1.10.3.2    SF-6 Transfer Pump                                                                                       -       -      -        -
A3.3.3.1.10.3.3    Service SF-6 bottle                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A3.3.3.1.10.3.4    Vacuum Pump                                                                                             A        -      -        -
                   TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.3.3.1.10.3.5    Nitrogen Cart                                                                                           A        -      -        -
                   TR: TO 12P2-APY 1-2-1, 35D3-6-33-13
A3.3.3.1.10.3.6    Service SF-6 system                                                                                      -       -      -        -
                   TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.3.3.1.10.4 FC-77
A3.3.3.1.10.4.1    FC-77 Servicing Cart                                                                                    A        -      -        -
                   TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.3.3.1.10.4.2    FC-77 Top-Off Bottle                                                                                     -       -      -        -
                   TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.3.3.1.10.4.3    Service antenna pedestal FC-77                                                                           -       -      -        -
                   TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.4   Airborne Warning and Control System
       TR: TO 00-25-234, 12P2-2APY1-2-1,
       1E-3A-2-110-93-1, 1E-3A-43-2-110-93-2, and
       1E-3A-43-2-110-93-3
A3.4.1 Wiring diagrams                                                                                                     A       A       -        -
A3.4.2 Wire list                                                                                                            -      A       -        -
A3.4.3 Perform Wire Wrapping                                                                                                -      A       -        -
A3.4.4 Replace Pickle Forks                                                                                                 -      A       -        -
A3.4.5 Isolate faults by
A3.4.5.1   Using Visual checks                           *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.4.5.2   Comparing test results with TO                *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.4.5.3   Performing Symptoms analysis using TO         *                                                                  -      B       -        -
           diagrams
A3.4.5.4   Tracing Signals                               *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.4.5.5   Performing Component substitution             *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.4.5.6   Performing Continuity Checks                  *                                                                  -      B       -        -

                                                                                                                                  Attachment 3
                                                                  36
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                        2A5X3D
                                                         2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                        A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                               3       5          7
                                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level   Level      Level
                                                         5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                    Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.4.5.7   Perform Rotary Joint Brush Block Inspection                                                                      -       -      -        -
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.4.5.8   Rotate the rotodome                                                                                              -       -      -        -
           TR: TO 1E-3A-2-7
A3.5   ORGANIZATIONAL MAINTENANCE
A3.5.1 Airborne Warning and Control Systems
       TR: AFI 21-101, Applicable CAT 00 & 1 TO,
       AFOSH 127-66, ACCI 21-166
A3.5.1.1   Replace aircraft wiring harnesses
A3.5.1.1.1 AN/APY-1 or APY-2 Radar Set                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A3.5.1.1.2 AN/APX-103 Interrogator System                                                                                   -       -      -        -
A3.5.1.2   Enter and Exit
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.5.1.2.1 Forward/AFT lower lobe                                                                                           -       -      -        -

A3.5.1.2.2 Antenna Pedestal                                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A3.5.1.2.3 Rotodome interior panels                                                                                         -       -      -        -
A3.5.2 Perform In-flight Maintenance Spares (IFMS)                                                                          -       -      -        -
       Inventory
       TR: TO 1E-3A-21
A3.6   MAINTAIN INSTALLED EQUIPMENT
A3.6.1. RSIP
A3.6.1.1    RSIP Radar – Turn on procedures              *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.2    Interpret messages and verify performance    *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.3    Mask Continuously Monitored Parameters       *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.4    Inhibit Automatic Testing                    *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.5    Reconfigure                                  *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.6    RSIP Memory Functions                        *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.7    RSIP Special Testing                         *    *                                                             -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.8    Initiate/Perform Individual Special Tests    *    *                                                             -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.9    Wake-up                                      *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.10 RCA                                            *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.11 Initiate / Perform Radar Test                  *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.12 Configuration Evaluation                       *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.13 Non Interruptive Testing                       *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.14 Normal Power Down Procedures                   *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.1.15 Emergency Power Down Procedures                *                                                                  -      B       -        -
                                                                                                                                  Attachment 3
                                                                  37
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                   2A5X3D
                                                    2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                     Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                     Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                   A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                          3       5          7
                                                                                                                     Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                     Level   Level      Level
                                                    5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                               Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.6.2 RSIP
         TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-20
A3.6.2.1     Solenoid Current                       *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.2.2     Beam Voltage                           *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.2.3     Collector Current                      *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.2.4     KPA Burn In                                 *                                                             -      B       -        -
A3.6.2.5     Average Power Calibration              *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.2.6     TAC Peak Power                         *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.2.7     TAC Curve Calibration                  *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.2.8     Phase Compensation Calibration         *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.2.9     Reflected Power Calibration            *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.2.10 Transmitter Peak Power Calibration        *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.3 Manual Calibration
A3.6.3.1     RSIP
A3.6.3.1.1 BIT Target Generator Calibrations                                                                           -      A       -        -

A3.6.3.1.2 Path Insertion                                                                                              -      B       -        -
A3.6.3.1.3 10db Loss Measurement                                                                                       -      B       -        -
A3.6.3.1.4 40db Loss Measurement                                                                                       -      B       -        -
A3.6.3.1.5 VCA Loss Measurement                                                                                        -      B       -        -
A3.6.3.1.6 Power Correction                                                                                            -      B       -        -
A3.6.3.1.7 Target Power Adjustment                                                                                     -      B       -        -
A3.6.3.1.8 Noise Diode Calibration
A3.6.3.1.8.1 Line Loss                                                                                                 -      B       -        -
A3.6.3.1.8.2 Noise Measurement                                                                                         -      B       -        -
A3.6.3.1.8.3 Noise Diode Calibration                                                                                   -      B       -        -
A3.6.3.1.9    Analog to Digital Offset Adjustment                                                                      -      A       -        -
A3.6.3.1.10 Spectrum Generator 60MHz Target                                                                            -       -      -        -
            Adjustment
A3.6.3.1.11 BTG Target 2 Center Frequency                                                                              -       -      -        -
            Adjustment
A3.6.3.1.12 BTG Cal – Receiver Gain Adjustments                                                                        -       -      -        -
A3.6.3.1.13 BTH IF Test and Adjustment                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A3.6.3.1.14 F0 Leakage Check                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A3.6.3.1.15 TAC Thermal Assembly Adjustments                                                                           -       -      -        -

                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                                             38
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                      2A5X3D
                                                       2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                        Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                      A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                             3       5          7
                                                                                                                        Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                        Level   Level      Level
                                                       5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                  Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.6.3.1.16 RCDU Internal Adjustments                                                                                     -       -      -        -
A3.6.4     Perform Radar Fault Isolation Test (FIT)
A3.6.4.1    RSIP
A3.6.4.1.1 RDP                                         *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.4.1.2 Unit                                        *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.4.1.3 System                                      *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.5 Perform fault analysis
A3.6.5.1    RSIP Radar System
            TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93 Series
A3.6.5.1.1 RDP                                                                                                            -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.1.2 RIAU                                                                                                           -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.1.3 RCMC                                                                                                           -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.1.4 STALO                                                                                                          -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.1.5 Synchronizer                                                                                                   -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.1.6 Analog Receiver                                                                                                -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.1.7 ASP                                                                                                            -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.1.8 Rotodome                                                                                                       -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.1.9 Transmitter                                                                                                    -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.1.10 Maritime Receiver                                                                                             -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.1.11 DLMB                                                                                                          -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.2   Interrogator System
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-5
A3.6.5.2.1 Steering                                                                                                       -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.2.2 RF                                                                                                             -      B       -        -
A3.6.5.2.3 OBTM&M                                                                                                        A       B       -        -
A3.6.5.2.4 Perform operational checkout                *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A3.6.6. Maintain System M
           TR: TO 1E-3A-2-93-4
A3.6.6.1    Perform Operational Checkout                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A3.6.7 RSIP Software Manipulation
       TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-20, 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-21
A3.6.7.1   Reset and Recycle Control                                                                                      -      B       -        -
A3.6.7.2   Set Disk Function                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A3.6.7.3   RSIP Recording Function                                                                                        -       -      -        -


                                                                                                                                Attachment 3
                                                                39
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                2A5X3D
                                                                 2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                  Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                       3       5          7
                                                                                                                                  Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level   Level      Level
                                                                 5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                            Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.6.7.4   Edit Calibration Data                                                                                                    -      B       -        -
A3.6.7.5   Copy RIAU EEPROM Data                                                                                                    -      B       -        -
A3.6.7.6   RSIP Transmitter Ground Radiation Procedure                                                                             A       B       -        -

A3.6.7.7   Transfer of radar test targets across the interface                                                                     A       B       -        -
A3.6.8 RSIP Use Console Mode
       TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-21
A3.6.8.1   Enter / Exit Console Mode                                                                                                -      B       -        -
A3.6.8.2   Mount / Dismount Disk                                                                                                    -      B       -        -
A3.6.8.3   Quicklook Testing                                                                                                        -      B       -        -
A3.6.8.4   RDP File Configuration                                                                                                   -      B       -        -
A3.6.8.5   Poll RDP Circuits                                                                                                        -      B       -        -
A3.6.8.6   Disk Utilities                                                                                                           -      B       -        -
A3.6.8.7   EEPROM Maintenance                                                                                                       -      B       -        -
A3.7   PERFORM POWER-OFF MAINTENANCE
A3.7.1 Airborne Warning and Control Systems
       TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.7.1.1    Replace AFT Lower Compartment Line
            Replaceable Units
A3.7.1.1.1 Power distribution unit                                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.2 Protection and control unit                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.3 Low voltage auxiliary unit                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.4 EMI filter                                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.5 High voltage transformer                                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.6 High voltage filter                                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.7 High voltage regulator                                                                                                   -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.8 High voltage auxiliary unit                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.9 KPA solenoid                                                                                                             -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.10 Solenoid power supply                                                                                                   -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.11 Floating deck pulser                                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.12 Driver                                                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.13 RF sample unit                                                                                                          -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.14 Microwave assembly                                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.15 Transmit angle control                                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.16 Ground deck pulser                                                                                                      -       -      -        -

                                                                                                                                          Attachment 3
                                                                          40
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                             2A5X3D
                                                              2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                               Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                    3       5          7
                                                                                                                               Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                               Level   Level      Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.7.1.1.17 Pre-driver                                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.18 Level set attenuator                                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.19 Ion pump power supply                                                                                                -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.20 SF-6 supply system                                                                                                   -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.1.21 Radar liquid coolant system                                                                                          -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.2    Replace mission crew compartment line
            replaceable units
A3.7.1.2.1 Radar analog enclosure
A3.7.1.2.1.1 Analog receiver                                                                                                     -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.2.1.2 STALO group                                                                                                         -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.2.1.3 Synchronizer                                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.2.2 Radar digital enclosure
A3.7.1.2.3 Maritime enclosure                                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.2.4 Radar Control and Maintenance Panel                                                                                   -       -      -        -
           (RCMP)
A3.7.1.2.5 Dehydrator                                                                                                            -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.2.6 Waveguide                                                                                                             -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.3    Replace antenna pedestal line replaceable units
            TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
A3.7.1.3.1 RF manifold                                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.3.2 Phase shifter driver unit                                                                                             -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.3.3 Microwave receiver                                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.3.4 Phase shifter control unit                                                                                            -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.3.5 Thermal stabilization unit                                                                                            -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.3.6 Rotary joint                                                                                                          -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.3.7 Waveguide                                                                                                             -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.4    Replace Forward Lower Lobe Components
            TR: TO 1E-3A-2-24-1
A3.7.1.4.1 R933 Relay                                                                                                            -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.4.2 M1029 Relay                                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.5    Replace Interrogator Systems LRUs
            TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-5
A3.7.1.5.1 Receiver Transmitter                                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.5.2 Radar target data processor                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.5.3 Power supply                                                                                                          -       -      -        -

                                                                                                                                       Attachment 3
                                                                       41
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                2A5X3D
                                                 2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                  Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                  Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                       3       5          7
                                                                                                                  Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                  Level   Level      Level
                                                 5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                            Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.7.1.5.4 Interrogator Computer                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.5.5 Transmission line switch                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.6   Antenna group
A3.7.1.6.1 Control                                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.6.2 Drive                                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.6.3 Power divider                                                                                            -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.6.4 RF Detector                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A3.7.1.6.5 Transmission line coupler                                                                                -       -      -        -
A3.8   INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE
A3.8.1 Bench check interrogator LRU
       TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-5, 12P4-2A-122
A3.8.1.1   Receiver-Transmitter                                                                                     -       -      -        -
A3.8.1.2   ISLS SW                                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A3.8.1.3   Low Voltage Power Supply (LVPS)                                                                          -       -      -        -
A3.8.1.4   Video processor                                                                                          -       -      -        -
A3.8.1.5   Antenna control                                                                                          -       -      -        -
A3.8.1.6   Antenna drive                                                                                            -       -      -        -
A3.8.1.7   Power dividers                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A3.8.1.8   RF detector                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A3.8.1.9   Transmission line switch                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A3.8.2 Repair Interrogator LRUs
       TR: TO 12P4-2A-122-1, -122, -183
A3.8.2.1   Receiver-Transmitter                                                                                     -       -      -        -
A3.8.2.2   Antenna control                                                                                          -       -      -        -
A3.8.2.3   Antenna drive                                                                                            -       -      -        -
A3.8.2.4   ISLS switch                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A3.8.2.5   Low voltage power supply                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A3.8.2.6   Transmitter plate                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A3.8.3 Special Support Equipment
A3.8.3.1   Principles of operation
A3.8.3.1.1 Spectrum Analyzer                                                                                        -      A       -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-10-147-1, 33D7-10-154-1
A3.8.3.1.1 Analog receiver test set (RIB)                                                                           -      A       -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-17-60-1


                                                                                                                          Attachment 3
                                                          42
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                        2A5X3D
                                                         2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                        A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                               3       5          7
                                                                                                                          Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                          Level   Level      Level
                                                         5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                    Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.8.3.1.1 Radar test set AN/APM-401                                                                                        -      A       -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-36-35-1, 33D7-36-35-1-1
A3.8.3.1.1. PROM Programmer                                                                                                 -       -      -        -
            TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-20
A3.8.3.1.1 Antenna control drive test AN/APM402                                                                             -      A       -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-47-55-1, 1E-3A-43-2-93-2
A3.8.3.2    Isolate malfunctions
A3.8.3.2.1 Spectrum analyzer                                                                                                -       -      -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-10-147-1, 33D7-10-154-1
A3.8.3.2.2 Analog receiver test set (RIB)                                                                                   -       -      -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-17-60-1
A3.8.3.2.3 Radar test set AN/APM-401                                                                                        -       -      -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-36-35-1, 33D7-36-35-1-1
A3.8.3.2.4 PROM Programmer                                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A3.8.3.2.5 Antenna control drive test set AN/APM402                                                                         -       -      -        -
           TR: TO 33D7-47-55-1, 1E-3A-43-2-93-5
A3.8.4 Klystron and Solenoid Assembly
       TR: TO 12P2-2APY1-2-1
A3.8.4.1    Build up Klystron and Solenoid Assembly           *                                                             -       -      -        -

A3.8.5 AUTOMATIC TRANSMITTER TEST SET
       (ATTS) AN/APM-478
       TR: TO 33D7-29-85-1, 33D7-44-329-2, -12
A3.8.5.1   Environmental Controls and Indicators
A3.8.5.2   Liquid Cooling Sys Operation and Monitoring                                                                      -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.3   Emergency Shutdown                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.4   Shutoff Valves                                                                                                   -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.5   Cold Weather Preparation and Operation                                                                           -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.6   Sulfur Hexaflouride (SF.6)
A3.8.5.6.1 Bottle Replacement                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.6.2 Leak Detection                                                                                                   -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.6.3 Pressurization Check                                                                                             -       -      -        -

A3.8.5.6.4 Antenna Pressurization Substitution (230lb                                                                       -       -      -        -
           Bottle)
A3.8.5.7   Environmental Cooling
A3.8.5.7.1 Control Panel Operation                                                                                          -       -      -        -

A3.8.5.8   Operate Transmitter HMU AN/FPM.40 Using
           ATTS AN/APM.478

                                                                                                                                  Attachment 3
                                                                  43
AWACS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                            2A5X3D
                                                             2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                              Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                            A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                   3       5          7
                                                                                                                              Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                              Level   Level      Level
                                                             5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                        Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A3.8.5.8.1 Turn On                                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.8.2 Shutdown                                                                                                             -       -      -        -

A3.8.5.8.3 Emergency Shutdown                                                                                                   -       -      -        -
           TR: TO 33D7.44.329.2, AFOSH 127.45
A3.8.5.8.4 RDC Simulator Panel                                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.8.5 Operational Self Test                                                                                                -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.8.6 Interface Check                                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.8.7 Monitor Test                                                                                                         -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.8.8 Harmonization                                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.8.9 Normalization                                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.8.10 KPA Burn In (Automatic) and Documentation                                                                           -       -      -        -
A3.8.5.8.11 KPA Burn In (Manual) and Documentation                                                                              -       -      -        -

A3.8.5.8.12 LRU Retest and Documentation                                                                                        -       -      -        -
            TR: TO 33D7.44.329.12

A3.8.5.9   Perform Power Off Maintenance
           TR: TO 33D7-44-329-2
A3.8.5.9.1 Lockout and Tag out Procedures                                                                                       -       -      -        -

A3.8.5.9.2 Remove and Install High Voltage Components                                                                           -       -      -        -

A3.8.5.9.3 High Voltage Cable Cleaning and Inspection                                                                           -       -      -        -

A3.8.5.9.4 Remove and Install High Power Microwave                                                                              -       -      -        -
           Components
A3.8.5.9.5 Remove and Install RF Components                                                                                     -       -      -        -

A3.8.5.9.6 Remove and Install Protection and Control Units                                                                      -       -      -        -

                                                     SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This section is changed extensively. The use of special codes to identify a specific aircraft is deleted. This
attachment contains the tasks for the E-3 (AWACS) aircraft and includes pre RSIP and post RSIP tasks.
Supervisors should review this section in its entirety for additions and deletions.




                                                                                                                                      Attachment 3
                                                                      44
 JSTARS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                           2A5X3D
                                                             2.        3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                              Core                                                             To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                                            Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                             A    B        A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                    3       5          7
                                                                                                                               Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                               Level   Level      Level
                                                              5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                         Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
NOTE 1: Asterisks in column 2A and 2B indicate minimum mandatory requirements for upgrade to the applicable skill level. Items identified with an
          */R are optional for AFRES and ANG.
NOTE 2: Where AFI 21-101 technical references are quoted, applicable MAJCOM/Multi-command regulations also apply.


A4.1. JSTARS TECHNICAL ORDER SYSTEM
      TR: PHOENIX, 1E-8C-12
A4.1.1 PHOENIX System                                                                                                           A       A       -        -
A4.1.2 Use PHOENIX                                            *                                                                 2b       -      -        -
A4.1.3 Technical Order Deficiency Reporting                                                                                     A        -      -        -
       TR: TO 00-5-2
A4.1.4 Perform Technical Order Verifications                                                                                     -       -      -        -
       TR: TO 00-5-3, TM-86-01
A4.2   SYSTEMS FUNCTIONAL ANALYSIS
       INCLUDING PURPOSE, OPERATION,
       SIGNAL PATHS, SIGNAL DISTRIBUTION
       AND MISSION TIE-IN
A4.2.1 Aircraft support systems
A4.2.1.1   E-8 Power Requirements                                                                                               A        -      -        -
           TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 0500 Series
A4.2.1.2   E-8 Environmental Control System                                                                                     A        -      -        -
            TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 2100 Series
A4.2.2 Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System
       (JSTARS) Surveillance System
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 9900 Series
A4.2.2.1   JSTARS Surveillance System                                                                                           A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.2   Data Processing Subsystem
A4.2.2.2.1 System Monitor and Control (SM&C) VAX 866                                                                             -       -      -        -
           Main Chassis
A4.2.2.2.1.1 System Monitor and Control (SM&C) VAX 861                                                                           -       -      -        -
             Expansion Chassis
A4.2.2.2.2 General Purpose Computer (GPC) VAX 866                                                                                -       -      -        -
           Main Chassis
A4.2.2.2.2.1 General Purpose Computer (GPC) VAX 861                                                                              -       -      -        -
             Expansion Chassis
A4.2.2.2.3 Data Interfaces (LANs and Buses)                                                                                     A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.2.4 Versatile Media Mass Memory (VM3)                                                                                     -       -      -        -
A4.2.2.2.5 Removable Transportable Memory Module                                                                                 -       -      -        -
           (RTMM)
A4.2.2.2.6 Power Interlock Control Junction Box (PIC JB)                                                                        A       B       -        -


                                                                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                                                       45
 JSTARS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                     2A5X3D
                                                        2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                         Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                       A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                              3       5          7
                                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level   Level      Level
                                                        5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A4.2.2.2.7 System Test Panel Junction Box (STP JB)                                                                        A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.2.8 System Monitor and Control Junction Box                                                                        A       B       -        -
           (SM&C JB)
A4.2.2.2.9 Serial Data Switching Unit Junction Box                                                                         -       -      -        -
           (SDSU JB)
A4.2.2.2.10 Central Computer                                                                                              A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.2.10.1 Central Computer Mass Storage                                                                               A       B       -        -
              Device (CCMSD)
A4.2.2.2.10.2 Central Computer Versa Media                                                                                A       B       -        -
              Europe (CCVME)
A4.2.2.2.11 LAN Hub (Gigaswitch)                                                                                          A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.2.12 LAN Bridge                                                                                                    A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.2.13 Serial Data Hub                                                                                               A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.2.14 Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI)                                                                       A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.2.15 FWD/AFT Fiber Optic Patch                                                                                     A       B       -        -
            Panel
A4.2.2.3 Data Display Subsystem
A4.2.2.3.1 Advanced Digital Display Processor (ADDP)                                                                       -       -      -        -
A4.2.2.3.2 Display Unit                                                                                                   A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.3.3 Operator Work Station Embedded Disk (OED)                                                                       -       -      -        -
A4.2.2.3.4 Data Entry Device                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A4.2.2.3.5 OWS Data Processor                                                                                             A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.3.6 OWS Mass Storage Device (MSD)                                                                                  A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.3.7 Data Entry Device (CRP)                                                                                        A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.4   Data Recording Subsystem
A4.2.2.4.1 Printer                                                                                                        A       A       -        -
A4.2.2.5   Radar Subsystem
A4.2.2.5.1 Radar Airborne Signal Processor (RASP)                                                                         A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.5.2 Radar Control Unit (RCU)                                                                                       A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.5.3 Receiver Analog to Digital Converter (RAD)                                                                     A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.5.4 Exciter (XCTR)                                                                                                 A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.5.5 Transmitters (XMTR)                                                                                            A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.5.6 High Power Combiner (HPC)                                                                                      A       B       -        -

A4.2.2.5.7 Antenna Group                                                                                                  A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.5.8 Signal Pre-Processor (SPP)                                                                                      -       -      -        -

                                                                                                                                 Attachment 4
                                                                 46
 JSTARS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                     2A5X3D
                                                        2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                         Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                       A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                              3       5          7
                                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level   Level      Level
                                                        5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A4.2.2.5.9 Pulse Compression Unit (PCU)                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A4.2.2.5.10 Programmable Signal Processor (PSP)                                                                            -       -      -        -
A4.2.2.5.11 Inertial Measurement Group (IMG)                                                                              A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.5.12 Antenna Servo Electronics (ASE)                                                                               A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.6   BIT Theory of Operation
A4.2.2.6.1 Operational Readiness Test (ORT)                                                                               A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.6.2 On-Line Testing                                                                                                A       B       -        -
A4.2.2.6.3 Diagnostic Test                                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A4.2.2.6.4 Diagnostic Test (CRP)                                                                                          A       B       -        -
A4.3   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
       TR: APPLICABLE 31 & 33 Series TO
A4.3.1 General Purpose Support Equipment
A4.3.1.1   Principles of Support Equipment
A4.3.1.1.1 Purpose                                                                                                         -       -      -        -
A4.3.1.1.2 Characteristics                                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A4.3.1.2   Common Test Equipment
A4.3.1.2.1 Milliohmeters                                                                                                   -       -      -        -
A4.3.1.2.2 Power Meter                                                                                                     -       -      -        -
A4.3.1.2.3 Oscilloscope                                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A4.3.1.2.4 Spectrum Analyzer                                                                                               -      B       -        -
A4.3.1.2.5 Radio Frequency Transmission Line Test                                                                          -      B       -        -
           Set (RFTLTS)
A4.3.1.2.6 Network/LAN Analyzer                                                                                            -      B       -        -
A4.3.1.2.7 1553 Bus Analyzer                                                                                               -      B       -        -
A4.3.1.2.8 Frequency Counter                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A4.3.1.2.9 Time Domain Reflectometer (TDR)                                                                                 -      B       -        -
A4.3.1.2.10 Multimeter                                                                                                     -       -      -        -
A4.3.2 Use Special Purpose Support Equipment
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99JG, 35D5-4-11-1
A4.3.2.1   Antenna Handling Unit                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A4.3.2.2   Antenna Lifting Beam                                                                                            -       -      -        -
A4.3.2.3   Antenna Stanchion                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A4.3.2.4   Antenna Array Cover Set                                                                                         -       -      -        -
A4.3.2.5   Line Replaceable Unit (LRU) Handling Dolly                                                                      -       -      -        -

                                                                                                                                 Attachment 4
                                                                 47
 JSTARS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                        2A5X3D
                                                           2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                            Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                          A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                 3       5          7
                                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level   Level      Level
                                                           5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                      Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A4.3.2.6   Monorail and Handling Sling                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A4.3.2.7   Nitrogen Cart                                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A4.3.2.8   Air Conditioning Equipment (ACE) Cart                                                                              -       -      -        -
A4.3.2.9   Trielectron                                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A4.3.3 Accomplish Routine Maintenance on Support                                                                              -       -      -        -
       equipment
       TR: TO 35D5-4-11-1
A4.4   COMMON O-LEVEL MAINTENANCE
       TR: 00-25-234, 1E-8C-12. 99WD and 110 Series TO
A4.4.1 Schematic and Wiring Diagrams                                                                                         A       A       -        -
A4.4.2 Equipment List                                                                                                         -       -      -        -
A4.5    MAINTAIN INSTALLED EQUIPMENT
A4.5.1 Operate Surveillance System
       TR: 1E-8C-12, 99JG Series
A4.5.1.1   Initialize Systems
A4.5.1.1.1 Data Processing Subsystem                       *                                                                  -       -      -        -
A4.5.1.1.2 Data Display Subsystem                          *                                                                  -       -      -        -
A4.5.1.1.3 Radar Subsystem                                 *                                                                  -       -      -        -
A4.5.1.2   Monitor and Control System Operation
A4.5.1.2.1 Operation of Radar Control Unit (RCU) Monitor                                                                      -       -      -        -
                                                           *
           TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99FI Series
A4.5.1.2.2 Operation of Performance Monitoring (PM)                                                                           -       -      -        -
           Background                                      *
           TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99FI Series
A4.5.1.2.3 Operation of Operation and Control                                                                                 -       -      -        -
           Operational (OCO) Task Monitor                  *
           TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99FI Series
A4.5.1.3   Data Processing Subsystem (CRP)                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A4.5.1.4   Data Display Subsystem (CRP)                                                                                       -       -      -        -
A4.5.1.5   Radar Subsystem (CRP)                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A4.5.1.6   Configure Equipment for Operational Use                                                                            -       -      -        -
A4.5.1.7   Perform Ground Radiation Procedures                                                                                -       -      -        -
A4.5.1.8   Align Display units                                                                                                -       -      -        -
A4.5.1.9   Terminate PME System operation                  *                                                                  -       -      -        -
A4.5.1.10 Radar Service Requests
A4.5.1.10.1 Radar Referenced Coverage Area                 *                                                                  -      B       -        -


                                                                                                                                    Attachment 4
                                                                    48
 JSTARS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                   2A5X3D
                                                      2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                       Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                       Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                     A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                            3       5          7
                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level   Level      Level
                                                      5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A4.5.1.10.2 Ground Referenced Coverage Area           *                                                                  -      B       -        -

A4.5.1.10.3    Sector Search                          *                                                                  -      B       -        -

A4.5.1.10.4    Synthetic Aperture Radar               *                                                                  -      B       -        -

A4.5.1.10.5    Antenna Patterns                       *                                                                  -      B       -        -

A4.5.2 Initiate Surveillance System Diagnostic Test
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99JG, 99FR, 99FI Series
A4.5.2.1     Data Processing Subsystem                                                                                   -       -      -        -
A4.5.2.1.1 General Purpose Computer (GPC)                                                                                -       -      -        -
A4.5.2.1.2    System Monitor & Control (SM&C)                                                                            -       -      -        -
A4.5.2.2     Data Display Subsystem                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A4.5.2.3     Data Processing Subsystem (CRP)
A4.5.2.3.1     Central Computer (CC)                  *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A4.5.2.4     Data Display Subsystem (CRP)
A4.5.2.4.1 Operator Work Station Data Processor       *
                                                                                                                         -      B       -        -
           (OWSDP)

A4.5.2.5     Radar Subsystem
A4.5.2.5.1 RSG                                        *                                                                  -       -      -        -
A4.5.2.5.2 RSE                                        *                                                                  -       -      -        -
A4.5.2.5.3 RCU                                        *                                                                  -       -      -        -
A4.5.2.5.4 PSP                                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A4.5.2.6     Radar Subsystem (CRP)
A4.5.2.6.1 RSG                                        *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A4.5.2.6.2 RSE                                        *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A4.5.2.6.3 RCU                                        *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A4.5.2.6.4 RASP                                       *                                                                  -      B       -        -
A4.5.3 Initiate Surveillance System Operational
       Readiness Test
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99JG, 99FI, 99FR Series
A4.5.3.1     Data Processing Subsystem                                                                                   -       -      -        -
A4.5.3.2     Data Display Subsystem                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A4.5.3.3     Data Processing Subsystem (CRP)                                                                             -       -      -        -
A4.5.3.4     Data Display Subsystem (CRP)                                                                                -       -      -        -
A4.5.3.5     Radar Subsystem
A4.5.3.5.1 RASP                                                                                                          -       -      -        -
A4.5.4 Interpret Test Results
                                                                                                                               Attachment 4
                                                               49
 JSTARS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                   2A5X3D
                                                      2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                       Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                       Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                     A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                            3       5          7
                                                                                                                       Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                       Level   Level      Level
                                                      5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                 Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99JG, 99FI, 99 FR Series
A4.5.4.1   Operational Readiness Test (ORT)           *                                                                  -      A       -        -
A4.5.4.2   Online Tests                               *                                                                  -      A       -        -
A4.5.4.3   Diagnostic Tests                           *                                                                  -      A       -        -
A4.6   Isolate Malfunctions Using:
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12
A4.6.1 Operational Readiness Test (ORT) Results                                                                          -       -      -        -
A4.6.2 On-line Testing Results                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A4.6.3 Diagnostic Testing Results                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A4.6.4 Schematics and Wiring Diagrams                                                                                    -       -      -        -
        TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99SD Series
A4.6.5 Perform Visual checks                                                                                             -      B       -        -
A4.6.6 Compare Test Results With TO                                                                                      -       -      -        -
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99-JG Series
A4.6.7 Perform Symptoms Analysis Using TO                                                                                -       -      -        -
       Diagrams
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99SD Series
A4.6.8 Signal Tracing                                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A4.6.9 Perform Component Substitution                                                                                    -       -      -        -
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99JG Series
A4.6.10 Perform Continuity Checks                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A4.7   ORGANIZATIONAL MAINTENANCE
       (JSTARS) SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS, 99JG, 99WD Series
A4.7.1 Replace Aircraft Wiring Harnesses
A4.7.1.1   Data Processing Subsystem                                                                                     -       -      -        -
A4.7.1.2   Data Display Subsystem                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A4.7.1.3   Radar Subsystem                                                                                               -       -      -        -

A4.7.2 Memory Load and Verify / Declassification
       Procedures

A4.7.2.1   Operation of Memory Load and Verify
            (MLV) Utility
A4.7.2.1.1 Radar Sensor Embedded (RSE) MLV Utility                                                                       -      B       -        -
                                                      *
           TR: TO 1E-8C 12, 00GS
A4.7.2.1.2 Radar Control Unit (RCU) MLV Utility                                                                          -      B       -        -
                                                      *
           TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS
A4.7.2.1.3 Pulse Compression Unit (PCU) MLV Utility                                                                      -       -      -        -
                                                      *
           TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS

                                                                                                                               Attachment 4
                                                               50
 JSTARS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                        2A5X3D
                                                           2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                            Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                          A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                 3       5          7
                                                                                                                            Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                            Level   Level      Level
                                                           5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                      Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A4.7.2.1.4 RASP (CRP)                                      *                                                                  -      B       -        -
            TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS
A4.7.2.2     Declassification Procedures
               TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS
A4.7.2.2.1    RSE OPS-113a                                 *                                                                  -      B       -        -
               TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS
A4.7.2.2.2    RCU OPS-114a                                 *                                                                  -      B       -        -
               TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS
A4.7.2.2.3    PCU OPS-115a                                                                                                    -       -      -        -
               TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS
A4.7.2.2.4    RASP OPS-199a                                *                                                                  -      B       -        -
               TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS
A4.7.2.2.5    General Equipment OPS-118a                   *                                                                  -      B       -        -
               TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS
A4.7.3     Perform Encoder Alignment Procedure                                                                                -       -      -        -
             TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 00GS
A4.7.4 Failure Isolation to Associated Aircraft                                                                               -       -      -        -
       Systems
A4.7.5 Enter and Exit Forward Lower Lobe                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A4.7.6 Access and Secure Surveillance Radome                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A4.7.7 Landing Gear Strut Inflation                                                                                           -       -      -        -
         TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 05JG Series
A4.8     PERFORM POWER-OFF MAINTENANCE
         TR: TO 1E-8C-12, 99JG, 53 JG Series
A4.8.1 Replace Data Processing Subsystem Line
       replaceable units/Shop replaceable
       units (LRU/SRU)
A4.8.1.1     Prime Mission Equipment Control Panel                                                                            -       -      -        -
A4.8.1.2     System Monitor and Control (SM&C) VAX 866                                                                        -       -      -        -
             Main Chassis
A4.8.1.3     System Monitor and Control (SM&C) VAX 861                                                                        -       -      -        -
             Expansion Chassis
A4.8.1.4     General Purpose Computer (GPC) VAX 866 Main                                                                      -       -      -        -
             Chassis
A4.8.1.5     General Purpose Computer (GPC) VAX 861                                                                           -       -      -        -
             Expansion Chassis
A4.8.1.6     System Junction Boxes                                                                                            -       -      -        -
A4.8.1.7     Versatile Media Mass Memory                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A4.8.1.8     Removable Transportable Memory Module                                                                            -       -      -        -


                                                                                                                                    Attachment 4
                                                                    51
 JSTARS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                     2A5X3D
                                                        2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                         Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                       A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                              3       5          7
                                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level   Level      Level
                                                        5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A4.8.1.9   Data Couplers                                                                                                   -       -      -        -
A4.8.2 Replace Data Display Subsystem LRU/SRU
A4.8.2.1   Display Unit                                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A4.8.2.2   Advanced Digital Data Processor                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A4.8.2.3   Data Entry Device                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A4.8.2.4   Local Area Network Transceiver                                                                                  -       -      -        -
A4.8.2.5   Operator Work Station Embedded                                                                                  -       -      -        -
           Disk (OED)
A4.8.3     Data Recording Subsystem
A4.8.3.1   Printer
A4.8.4 Replace Radar Subsystem LRU/SRU
A4.8.4.1   Radar Control Unit (RCU)                                                                                        -       -      -        -

A4.8.4.2   Programmable Signal Processor (PSP)                                                                             -       -      -        -

A4.8.4.3   Signal Pre-Processor (SPP)                                                                                      -       -      -        -

A4.8.4.4   Pulse Compression Unit (PCU)                                                                                    -       -      -        -

A4.8.4.5   Receiver Analog to Digital Converter                                                                            -       -      -        -

A4.8.4.6   Antenna Servo Electronics (ASE)                                                                                 -       -      -        -

A4.8.4.7   Exciter                                                                                                         -       -      -        -

A4.8.4.8   High Power Combiner (HPC)                                                                                       -       -      -        -

A4.8.4.9   Transmitters                                                                                                    -       -      -        -

A4.8.4.10Waveguide Assemblies                                                                                              -       -      -        -

A4.8.5 Replace Antenna Group LRU/SRU
A4.8.5.1   RF/IF Distribution Plate Assembly                                                                               -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.2   Receiver Channel Assembly (Down Converter)                                                                      -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.3   Post Regulator Circuit Card Assembly                                                                            -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.4   Phase Shifter Interface Module (PIM)                                                                            -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.5   Phase Shifter Circuit Card Assembly                                                                             -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.6   Phase Shifter Delay Lines                                                                                       -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.7   Circulator Assembly                                                                                             -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.8   RF Rotary Joint Assembly                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.9   Waveguide Switch                                                                                                -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.10 Waveguide Assembly                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.11 Antenna Interface Module Control Processor                                                                       -       -      -        -
           (CP/AIM)
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 4
                                                                 52
 JSTARS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                     2A5X3D
                                                        2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                         Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                         Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                       A   B         A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                              3       5          7
                                                                                                                         Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                         Level   Level      Level
                                                        5    7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC
A4.8.5.12 Inertial Measurement Group                                                                                       -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.13 Encoder Assembly                                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.14 Rotary Electromechanical Actuator                                                                                -       -      -        -
           Assembly (B1, B2)
A4.8.5.15 Forward/Aft Radome Manual Drive Flexible                                                                         -       -      -        -
           Shaft
A4.8.5.16 Forward/Aft Radome Motor Driven Flexible                                                                         -       -      -        -
           Shaft
A4.8.5.17 Surveillance Radome                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.18 Surveillance Antenna                                                                                             -       -      -        -
A4.8.5.19 Surveillance Antenna Packing/Unpacking                                                                           -       -      -        -
A4.8.6 Replace Computer Replacement Program (CRP)
       LRU/SRU
A4.8.6.1   Central Computer (CC)                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A4.8.6.2   CC Versa Module Europa (VME)                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A4.8.6.3   CC Mass Storage Device (MSD)                                                                                    -       -      -        -
A4.8.6.4   Remote Memory Module (RMM)                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A4.8.6.5   Local Area Network (LAN) Hub (GIGA Switch)                                                                      -       -      -        -
A4.8.6.6   LAN Bridge                                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A4.8.6.7   Serial Data Hub                                                                                                 -       -      -        -
A4.8.6.8   FDDI Interconnect Cables                                                                                        -       -      -        -
A4.8.7 Replace CRP Radar Sub-system LRU/SRU
A4.8.7.1   Radar Airborne Signal Processor (RASP)            *                                                             -       -      -        -
A4.8.8 Replace Operator Work Station (OWS) LRU/SRU
A4.8.8.1   OWS Data Processor                                                                                              -       -      -        -
A4.8.8.2   OWS MSD                                                                                                         -       -      -        -
A4.8.8.3   OWS Fiber Optic Patch Cable                                                                                     -       -      -        -
A4.8.8.4   Remote Memory Module (RMM)                                                                                      -       -      -        -
A4.8.8.5   Data Entry Device                                                                                               -       -      -        -
A4.9   INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE
A4.9.1 Special Support Equipment                                                                                           -       -      -        -
A4.9.2 Principles of Operation                                                                                             -       -      -        -




                                                                                                                                 Attachment 4
                                                                 53
 JSTARS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                               2A5X3D
                                                  2.       3. Certification For OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                   Core                                                            To Indicate
                                                   Tasks                                                           Training/Information
                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                 A    B        A        B          C          D          E          A       B          C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                        3       5          7
                                                                                                                   Skill   Skill       Skill
                                                                                                                   Level   Level      Level
                                                   5   7   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)     (1)    (1)       (2)
                                                             Start    Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse    CDC     Crse CDC

                                            SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This section is changed extensively. The use of special codes to identify a specific aircraft is deleted. This
attachment contains the tasks for the E-8 (JSTARS) aircraft.
Supervisors should review this section in its entirety for additions and deletions.




                                                                                                                           Attachment 4
                                                           54
ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                            2A5X3D
                                                      2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                      Core                                                                     To Indicate
                                                      Tasks                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                      A    B         A          B              C          D          E          A     B           C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                    3     5           7
                                                                                                                               Skill Skill        Skill
                                                                                                                               Level Level       Level
                                                       5      7    Training   Training       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)   (1)    (1)        (2)
                                                                     Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse CDC      Crse     CDC
NOTE 1: This attachment identifies the Air Force standardized STS Electronic Fundamentals and applications STS entries.
NOTE 2: Only those items in column 4A that have proficiency level codes are trained in the Principles portion of the course.
NOTE 3: Users may annotate additional devices or circuits not identified by this attachment that are specific to their AFSC IAW AFI 36-2201.
A5.1        BASIC TERMS
            TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -5
A5.1.1      Metric Notation                                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.1.2      Direct Current (DC) terms                                                                                           B      -      -        -
A5.1.3      Alternating Current (AC) terms                                                                                      B      -      -        -
A5.2        BASIC CIRCUITS
            TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -5
A5.2.1      Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.2.2      Troubleshoot Circuits                                                                                               2b     -      -        -
A5.3        BASIC CIRCUIT CALCULATIONS
            TR: TO 31-1-141-5
A5.3.1      DC                                                                                                                  B      -      -        -
A5.3.2      AC                                                                                                                  B      -      -        -
A5.4        RESISTORS
            TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -15
A5.4.1      Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.4.2      Color code                                                                                                          2b     -      -        -
A5.4.3      Isolate faulty resistors                                                                                            2b     -      -        -
A5.5        RELAYS/SOLENOIDS
            TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -3
A5.5.1      Relay Theory of Operation                                                                                           B      -      -        -
A5.5.2      Isolate faulty relays                                                                                               2b     -      -        -
A5.5.3      Solenoid theory of operation                                                                                        B      -      -        -
A5.6        INDUCTORS
            TR: TO 31-1-141-2. -15
A5.6.1      Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.6.2      Isolate faulty inductors                                                                                            2b     -      -        -
A5.6.3      Calculations                                                                                                        -      -      -        -
A5.7        CAPACITORS
            TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -5, -15
A5.7.1      Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -



                                                                                                                                     Attachment 5
                                                                      55
ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          2A5X3D
                                                    2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                    Core                                                                     To Indicate
                                                    Tasks                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                   A   B           A          B              C          D          E          A     B           C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                  3     5           7
                                                                                                                             Skill Skill        Skill
                                                                                                                             Level Level       Level
                                                    5       7    Training   Training       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)   (1)    (1)        (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse CDC      Crse     CDC
A5.7.2    Isolate faulty capacitors                                                                                           2b     -      -        -
A5.7.3    Calculations                                                                                                        -      -      -        -
A5.7.4    Color code                                                                                                          -      -      -        -
A5.8      TRANSFORMERS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -5, -15
A5.8.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.8.2    Isolate faulty transformers                                                                                         2b     -      -        -
A5.8.3    Calculations                                                                                                        -      -      -        -
A5.9      THREE PHASE TRANSFORMERS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -15
A5.9.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.9.2    Isolate faulty three phase transformers                                                                             -      -      -        -
A5.10     DC MOTORS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -9
A5.10.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.10.2   Troubleshoot DC motors                                                                                              -      -      -        -
A5.11     AC MOTORS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -9
A5.11.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.11.2   Trouble shoot AC motors                                                                                             -      -      -        -
A5.12     DC GENERATORS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -9, -13
A5.12.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.12.2   Troubleshoot DC generators                                                                                          -      -      -        -
A5.13     AC GENERATORS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -9, -13
A5.13.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.13.2   Troubleshoot AC generators                                                                                          -      -      -        -
A5.14     SYNCHRO/SERVOS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -9
A5.14.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.14.2   Troubleshoot synchro/servos                                                                                         b      -      -        -
A5.15     TRANSDUCERS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-3, -14
A5.15.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -

                                                                                                                                   Attachment 5
                                                                    56
ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          2A5X3D
                                                    2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                    Core                                                                     To Indicate
                                                    Tasks                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                   A   B           A          B              C          D          E          A     B           C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                  3     5           7
                                                                                                                             Skill Skill        Skill
                                                                                                                             Level Level       Level
                                                    5       7    Training   Training       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)   (1)    (1)        (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse CDC      Crse     CDC
A5.15.2   Isolate faulty transducers                                                                                          -      -      -        -
A5.16     Meter Movements
          TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -7, -14C
A5.16.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.16.2   Isolate faulty meters                                                                                               -      -      -        -
A5.17     SOLID STATE DIODES
          TR: TO 31-1-141-4, -15
A5.17.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.17.2   Isolate faulty solid state diodes                                                                                   2b     -      -        -
A5.17.3   Specifications                                                                                                      -      -      -        -
A5.17.4   Color code                                                                                                          -      -      -        -
A5.18     BIPOLAR JUNCTION TRANSISTORS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-4
A5.18.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.18.2   Isolate faulty transistors                                                                                          2b     -      -        -
A5.18.3   Specifications                                                                                                      -      -      -        -
A5.19     INTEGRATED CIRCUITS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-4
A5.19.1   Familiarization                                                                                                     B      -      -        -
A5.19.2   Isolate faulty integrated circuits                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.19.3   Specifications                                                                                                      -      -      -        -
A5.20     SOLID STATE SPECIAL PURPOSE
          DEVICES
          TR: TO 31-1-141-4
A5.20.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.20.2   Silicon Controlled Rectifier (SCR)                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.20.3   Zener diode                                                                                                         B      -      -        -
A5.20.4   Tunnel diode                                                                                                        -      -      -        -
A5.20.5   Light Emitting Diode (LED)                                                                                          B      -      -        -
A5.20.6   Liquid Crystal Diode (LCD)                                                                                          B      -      -        -
A5.20.7   Unijunction Transistor (UJT)                                                                                        -      -      -        -
A5.20.8   Junction Field Effect Transistor (JFET)                                                                             -      -      -        -
A5.20.9   Metal Oxide Semi-Conductor Field                                                                                    -      -      -        -
          Effect Transistor (MOSFET)



                                                                                                                                   Attachment 5
                                                                    57
ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                           2A5X3D
                                                     2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                     Core                                                                     To Indicate
                                                     Tasks                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                    A   B           A          B              C          D          E          A     B           C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                   3     5           7
                                                                                                                              Skill Skill        Skill
                                                                                                                              Level Level       Level
                                                     5       7    Training   Training       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)   (1)    (1)        (2)
                                                                    Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse CDC      Crse     CDC
A5.20.10   Positive intrinsic negative (PIN) diode                                                                             -      -      -        -
A5.20.11   Varactor                                                                                                            -      -      -        -
A5.20.12   Isolate faulty special purpose devices                                                                              -      -      -        -
A5.21      ELECTRON TUBES
           TR: TO 31-1-141-1, -3, -9
A5.21.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.21.2    Isolate faulty CRTs                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.22      CATHODE RAY TUBES (CRT)
           TR: TO 31-1-141-1, -3
A5.22.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.22.2    Isolate faulty CRTs                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.23      SOLDER/DESOLDER
           TR: TO 00-25-234, 1-1A-14,
           31-1-141-15
A5.23.1     Terminal connections                                                                                               2b     -      -        -
A5.23.2     Printed Circuit (PC) boards                                                                                        2b     -      -        -
A5.23.3     Multipin connectors                                                                                                2b     -      -        -
A5.23.4     Coaxial connectors                                                                                                 2b     -      -        -
A5.23.5     Pot connectors                                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.24      ASSEMBLE/DISASSEMBLE
           SOLDERLESS CONNECTORS
           TR: TO 1-1A-14, 31-1-141-15
A5.24.1     Crimp connections                        *                                                                         2b     -      -        -
A5.24.2     Coaxial connections                      *                                                                         2b     -      -        -
A5.24.3    Multipin connections                      *                                                                         2b     -      -        -
A5.25      USE TEST EQUIPMENT
           TR: TO 31-1-141-1, -7, -8, -9, -10
A5.25.1     Analog multimeter                                                                                                  2b     -      -        -
A5.25.2     Oscilloscope                                                                                                       2b     -      -        -
A5.25.3     Signal Generator                                                                                                   2b     -      -        -
A5.25.4     Frequency counter                                                                                                  2b     -      -        -
A5.25.5     Spectrum Analyzer                                                                                                  2b     -      -        -
A5.25.6     Field Strength Tester                                                                                              -      -      -        -
A5.25.7     Digital multimeter                       *                                                                         -      -      -        -



                                                                                                                                    Attachment 5
                                                                     58
ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          2A5X3D
                                                    2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                    Core                                                                     To Indicate
                                                    Tasks                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                   A   B           A          B              C          D          E          A     B           C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                  3     5           7
                                                                                                                             Skill Skill        Skill
                                                                                                                             Level Level       Level
                                                    5       7    Training   Training       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)   (1)    (1)        (2)
                                                                   Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse CDC      Crse     CDC
A5.25.8      Digital logic probe                                                                                              -      -      -        -
A5.25.9      Capacitor tester                                                                                                 -      -      -        -
A5.25.10     Capacitor substitution box                                                                                       -      -      -        -
A5.25.11     Logic current tracer                                                                                             -      -      -        -
A5.25.12     Logic pulser                                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.25.13     Logic analyzer                                                                                                   -      -      -        -
A5.25.14     Signature analyzer                                                                                               -      -      -        -
A5.25.15     Time Domain Reflectometer                      *                                                                 -     B       -        -
A5.25.16     Serial Bus Analyzer                                                                                              -      -      -        -
A5.25.17     Bonding Meter                                                                                                    -      -      -        -
A5.26 TRANSISTOR AMPLFIER CIRCUITS TR:
      TO 31-1-141-1, -4
A5.26.1     Theory of Operation                                                                                               -      -      -        -
A5.26.1.1 Amplifier circuits                                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.26.1.2 Stabilization circuits                                                                                              -      -      -        -
A5.26.1.3 Coupling circuits                                                                                                   -      -      -        -
A5.26.1.4 Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                               -      -      -        -
A5.27 OPERATIONAL AMPLIFIERS (OP AMPS)
      TR: TO 31-1-141-4
A5.27.1     Theory of Operation                                                                                               -      -      -        -
A5.27.2     Isolate faulty operational amplifiers                                                                             -      -      -        -
A5.28 POWER SUPPLY CIRCUITS
      TR: TO 31-1-141-3, -4, -9, -15
A5.28.1     Theory of Operation                                                                                               -      -      -        -
A5.28.1.1 Rectifiers                                                                                                          B      -      -        -
A5.28.1.2 Filters                                                                                                             B      -      -        -
A5.28.2     Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                             -      -      -        -
A5.29 VOLTAGE REGULATORS
      TR: TO 31-1-141-3, -4
A5.29.1     Theory of Operation                                                                                               B      -      -        -
A5.29.2     Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                             -      -      -        -
A5.30      RESISTIVE/CAPACITIVE/INDUCTIVE
           (RCL) CIRCUITS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-2, -5


                                                                                                                                   Attachment 5
                                                                    59
ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                               2A5X3D
                                         2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                         Core                                                                     To Indicate
                                         Tasks                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL        A   B           A          B              C          D          E          A     B           C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                       3     5           7
                                                                                                                  Skill Skill        Skill
                                                                                                                  Level Level       Level
                                         5       7    Training   Training       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)   (1)    (1)        (2)
                                                        Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse CDC      Crse     CDC
A5.30.1     Basic operation                                                                                        -      -      -        -
A5.30.2     Resonant operation                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.30.3     Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.30.4     Calculations                                                                                           -      -      -        -
A5.31      FREQUENCY SENSITIVE FILTERS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-2
A5.31.1     Theory of Operation                                                                                    -      -      -        -
A5.31.2     Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.31.3     Calculations                                                                                           -      -      -        -
A5.32      WAVE GENERATION CIRCUITS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-3, -4, -10
A5.32.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                      B      -      -        -
A5.32.1.1 Oscillators                                                                                              B      -      -        -
A5.32.1.2 Multivibrators                                                                                           B      -      -        -
A5.32.1.3 Wave shaping circuits                                                                                    B      -      -        -
A5.32.2   Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                    -      -      -        -
A5.33      LIMITER CIRCUITS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-4
A5.33.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                      -      -      -        -
A5.33.1.1 Diode                                                                                                    -      -      -        -
A5.33.1.2 Zener diode                                                                                              -      -      -        -
A5.33.1.3 Transistor                                                                                               -      -      -        -
A5.33.2   Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                    -      -      -        -
A5.34      CLAMPER CIRCUITS
A5.34.1     Theory of Operation                                                                                    -      -      -        -
A5.34.2     Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.35      DIGITAL NUMBERING SYSTEMS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-5
A5.35.1    Conversion                                                                                              -      -      -        -
A5.35.1.1 Binary                                                                                                   2b    B       -        -
A5.35.1.2 Octal                                                                                                    2b    B       -        -
A5.35.1.3 Hexadecimal                                                                                              2b    B       -        -
A5.35.2    Math operations


                                                                                                                        Attachment 5
                                                         60
ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          2A5X3D
                                                 2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                 Core                                                                     To Indicate
                                                 Tasks                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                A   B           A          B              C          D          E          A     B            C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                               3     5            7
                                                                                                                          Skill Skill         Skill
                                                                                                                          Level Level        Level
                                                 5       7    Training   Training       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)   (1)     (1)        (2)
                                                                Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse CDC       Crse     CDC
A5.35.2.1 Binary                                                                                                           2b        B    -        -
A5.35.2.2 Octal                                                                                                            -         B    -        -
A5.35.2.3 Hexadecimal                                                                                                      -         B    -        -
A5.35.3    Binary code systems                                                                                             -         -    -        -
A5.36      DIGITAL LOGIC FUNCTIONS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-4, -9
A5.36.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                             B     -        -        -
A5.36.1.1 Main Logic Gates                                                                                                 B         B    -        -
A5.36.1.2 Flip-Flops                                                                                                       B         B    -        -
A5.36.2    Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                           -         -    -        -
A5.36.3    Logic families
A5.36.3.1 Transistor to Transistor Logic (TTL)                                                                             B         B    -        -
A5.36.3.2 Complementary Metal Oxide Semi-                                                                                  -         -    -        -
          Conductor (CMOS)
A5.37      BOOLEAN EQUATIONS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-5
A5.37.1 Diagram to equation                                                                                                -         -    -        -
A5.37.2 Equation to diagram                                                                                                -         -    -        -
A5.37.3 Simplify expressions                                                                                               -         -    -        -
A5.38      COMPUTERS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-6C, -9
A5.38.1    Computer Theory                                                                                                 B         B    -        -
A5.38.2    Software
A5.38.2.1 Operating system                                                                                                 B         -    -        -
A5.38.2.2 Virus protection                                                                                                 B         -    -        -
A5.38.2.3 Diagnostics                                                                                                      B         -    -        -
A5.38.2.4 Applications                                                                                                     B         -    -        -
A5.38.3    Load programs                                                                                                   -         -    -        -
A5.38.4    Write and debug programs                                                                                        -         -    -        -
A5.38.5    Isolate faulty major computer units                                                                             -         -    -        -
A5.38.6    Troubleshoot subassemblies/circuits                                                                             -         -    -        -
A5.38.7    Types of memories                                                                                               -         B    -        -
A5.38.8    Peripheral devices                                                                                              B         -    -        -


                                                                                                                                Attachment 5
                                                                 61
ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                     2A5X3D
                                               2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                               Core                                                                     To Indicate
                                               Tasks                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL              A   B           A          B              C          D          E          A     B           C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                             3     5           7
                                                                                                                        Skill Skill        Skill
                                                                                                                        Level Level       Level
                                               5       7    Training   Training       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)   (1)    (1)        (2)
                                                              Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse CDC      Crse     CDC
A5.38.9    Programming languages                                                                                         -      -      -        -
A5.39      MICROPROCESSOR CONTROLLED
           SYSTEMS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-6C, -9
A5.39.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                           -      -      -        -
A5.39.1.1 Basic                                                                                                          -      -      -        -
A5.39.1.2 Universal                                                                                                      -      -      -        -
A5.39.1.3 8085 Specific                                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.39.2    Isolate faulty microprocessors                                                                                -      -      -        -
A5.40      LOGIC CIRCUITS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-3, -5, -9, -13
A5.40.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                           -      -      -        -
A5.40.1.1 Counters                                                                                                       -      -      -        -
A5.40.1.2 Registers                                                                                                      -      -      -        -
A5.40.1.3 Combination logic circuits                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.40.2    Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                         -      -      -        -
A5.41     DIGITAL TO ANALOG AND ANALOG
          TO DIGTAL CONVERTERS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-13
A5.41.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                           B     B       -        -
A5.41.2    Isolate faulty converters                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.42      TRANSMISSION LINES
           TR: TO 31-1-141-7, -8, -9, -11
A5.42.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                           B     B       -        -
A5.42.2    Perform measurements                                                                                          -      -      -        -
A5.42.3    Calculations                                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.42.4    Isolate faulty transmission lines                                                                             -      -      -        -
A5.43      WAVEGUIDES
           TR: TO 31-1-141-9, -11
A5.43.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                           B      -      -        -
A5.43.2    Fault Isolation                                                                                               -      -      -        -
A5.44      MICROWAVE OSCILLATORS AND
           AMPLIFIERS
           TR: TO 31-1-141-3, -10, -11
A5.44.1    Theory of Operation                                                                                           -      -      -        -


                                                                                                                              Attachment 5
                                                               62
ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                           2A5X3D
                                                     2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                     Core                                                                     To Indicate
                                                     Tasks                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                    A   B           A          B              C          D          E          A     B           C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                   3     5           7
                                                                                                                              Skill Skill        Skill
                                                                                                                              Level Level       Level
                                                     5       7    Training   Training       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)   (1)    (1)        (2)
                                                                    Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse CDC      Crse     CDC
A5.44.2   Tune or adjust                                                                                                       -      -      -        -
A5.44.3   Isolate faulty microwave oscillators and                                                                             -      -      -        -
          amplifiers
A5.45     RESONANT CAVITIES
          TR: TO 31-1-141-3, -9, -11
A5.45.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.45.2   Isolate faulty resonant cavities                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.45.3   Tune or adjust                                                                                                       -      -      -        -
A5.46     TRANSMITTERS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-4, -9, -13
A5.46.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.46.1.1 Amplitude Modulation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.46.1.2 Frequency Modulation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.46.1.3 Single Side Band                                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.46.1.4 Pulse Modulation                                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.46.2   Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                                -      -      -        -
A5. 47    RECEIVERS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-4, -9, -13
A5.47.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.47.1.1 Amplitude Modulation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.47.1.2 Frequency Modulation                                                                                                 B      -      -        -
A5.47.1.3 Single Side Band                                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.47.1.4 Pulse Modulation                                                                                                     -      -      -        -
A5.47.2   Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                                -      -      -        -
A5.48     ANTENNAS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-12
A5.48.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                  B      -      -        -
A5.48.2   Perform alignments                                                                                                   -      -      -        -
A5.48.3   Isolate faulty antennas                                                                                              -      -      -        -
A5.49     PHOTOSENSITIVE DEVICES
          TR: TO 31-1-141-3, 4
A5.49.1   Theory of Operation                                                                                                  -      -      -        -
A5.49.2   Isolate faulty photosensitive devices                                                                                -      -      -        -




                                                                                                                                    Attachment 5
                                                                     63
ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                         2A5X3D
                                                   2.          3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                   Core                                                                     To Indicate
                                                   Tasks                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                  A   B           A          B              C          D          E          A     B           C
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                 3     5           7
                                                                                                                            Skill Skill        Skill
                                                                                                                            Level Level       Level
                                                   5       7    Training   Training       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)   (1)    (1)        (2)
                                                                  Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials    Crse CDC      Crse     CDC
A5.50     SUPPORT SUBJECTS
          TR: TO 31-1-141-1, 00-25-234
          AFR 80-23, 700-13
A5.50.1    Electronics safety                                                                                                B     B       -        -
A5.50.2    First aid for electrical shock                                                                                    B     B       -        -
A5.50.3    Electrostatic discharge (ESD) control                                                                             B     B       -        -
A5.50.4    Electromagnetic effects on electronic
           equipment
A5.50.4.1 Pulse (EMP)                                                                                                        B      -      -        -
A5.50.4.2 Interference (EMI)                                                                                                 B      -      -        -




                                                                                                                                  Attachment 5
                                                                   64
SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST

4. Measurement. Each coded CFETP task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is measured
through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the student so he or she knows what is
expected of them to successfully complete training on each task. Each objective is composed of a condition,
behavior and standard; which states what is expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in
which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The behavior is the observable portion of the
objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the level of performance that is measured to
ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses letter code(s) to identify how it is
measured. All objectives use the PC code(s), which indicates a progress check is used to measure subject or
task knowledge. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or task
knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject or task knowledge progress check and
a separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test.

5. Standard. The standard of written examination is 70%. Standards for performance are indicated in the
objective and are also indicated on the individual progress check checklist. The checklist is used by the
instructor to document each student's progress on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during
the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory
performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

6. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the CFETP to determine the proficiency level of a particular task
or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item the objective supports.
Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section A of this CFETP for an explanation of the proficiency
codes. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which means the students can do most
parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can
also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. For tasks that are taught to the "3c" proficiency
level, students can do all parts of the task and only require a spot check on completed work (competent). The
student can also identify why and when a task must be done and why each step is needed.

7. Course Objective. A detailed listing of the initial skills or craftsman course objectives may be obtained by
submitting a written request to the AETC Training Manager at, 365 TRS/TRR, 609 9th Ave., Sheppard AFB
TX, 76311-2335, DSN 736-7891.

SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIALS

8. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently referenced
areas. For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR.

9. Exportable Courses. Complete lists of exportable courses can be found at
www.hill.af.mil/367TRSS/findex.htm and https://hq2af.keesler.af.mil.

COURSE NUMBER                 TITLE                                 OPR
A6ANU00TCB0000                FOD Prevention                       367 TRSS/TSIE
                                                                   6058 Aspen
                                                                   Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
                                                                   DSN 777-0160


                                                      65
COURSE NUMBER     TITLE                            OPR
C5AKM00TVT0001    Safety and Radio Frequency       367 TRSS/TSIE
                  (RF) Radiation                   6058 Aspen
                                                   Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
                                                   DSN 777-0160
C5AKM00TVT0011    Cold Weather Safety              367 TRSS/TSIE
                                                   6058 Aspen
                                                   Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
                                                   DSN 777-0160

A6ANU00TIV0691    Aerospace Corrosion Prevention   367 TRSS/TSIE
                  & Control                        6058 Aspen
                                                   Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
                                                   DSN 777-0160

A6AKM00TVTAG05    Aircraft Deicing Using the       367 TRSS/TSIE
                  TM-1800 Landoll Deicer           6058 Aspen
                                                   Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
                                                   DSN 777-0160

C6AGM00QIV1000    Aircraft Marshaling              367 TRSS/TSIE
                                                   6058 Aspen
                                                   Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
                                                   DSN 777-0160

C6ANU35TIV1100   C-135 Emergency Ground Egress     367 TRSS/TSIE
                                                   6058 Aspen
                                                   Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
                                                   DSN 777-0160

A6ANU00TIV2800   Aircraft Schematic Diagram        367 TRSS/TSIE
                 Familiarization                   6058 Aspen
                                                   Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
                                                   DSN 777-0160

J6ANU00066 044   Technical Order                   362 TRS/DOP
                 System (General)                  613 10th Ave
                                                   Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
                                                   DSN 736-5206

J6ANU00066 045   Technical Order                   362 TRS/DOP
                 System (Advanced)                 613 10th Ave
                                                   Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
                                                   DSN 736-5206



                                        66
COURSE NUMBER              TITLE                             OPR
J6ANU00066 046            IMDS For Backshop                  362 TRS/DOP
                                                             613 10th Ave
                                                             Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
                                                             DSN 736-5206
J6AZU00066 047            IMDS for Supervisors               362 TRS/DOP
                                                             613 10th Ave
                                                             Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
                                                             DSN 736-5206
J6AZU00066 061            Core Automated Maintenance         362 TRS/DOP
                          System (CAMS) Operators            613 10th Ave
                          Course (Introduction)              Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
                                                             DSN 736-5206

J6AZU00066 062            Core Automated Maintenance         362 TRS/DOP
                          System (CAMS) (Mid-Level           613 10th Ave
                          Maintenance Managers)              Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
                                                             DSN 736-5206

J6AJI3S251 000            AF Training Course                 82 TRG/TRSS
                          (Exportable)                       620 9th Ave
                                                             Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2337
                                                             DSN 736-2056

L6AZS2E351 013            STP COMSEC Awareness               342 TTS/TTSCD
                          Training                           1220 Truemper St, Suite 1
                                                             Lackland AFB, TX 78236-5546
                                                             DSN 473-2957

SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

10. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the Airborne Surveillance
Radar System Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training
programs. Below is a list of available courses for broadening and expanding career field knowledge. For
further information on the following courses, contact the 2A5X3D Training Manager at, 365 TRS/TRR, 609 9th
Ave., Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-2335, DSN 736-7891.

11. Air Force In-residence Courses.

COURSE NUMBER               TITLE                            OPR
E3AQR2A533D 344             Electronic Principles (CETP)     332 TRS/TRR
                                                             613 Hangar Rd,
                                                             Keesler AFB MS 39534-2037
                                                             DSN 597-5355


                                                 67
COURSE NUMBER                TITLE                             OPR
J3ABR2A533D 000              Airborne Surveillance             365 TRS/TRR
                             Radar System Apprentice           609 9th Ave.
                                                               Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2335
                                                               DSN 736-7891
J3ACR2A573 001               Craftsman Avionics                365 TRS/TRR
                                                               609 9th Ave.
                                                               Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2335
                                                               DSN 736-7891

12. Training Detachment (TD) Courses:
* Indicates mandatory courses. For further information on the TD courses, contact the OPRs.

COURSE NUMBER                TITLE                             OPR
J4ASF2A5X3D 008              AN/APY-1/-2 Antenna Group         373 TRS/Det 9
                                                               7710 1st Ave
                                                               Tinker AFB, OK, 73145
                                                               DSN 884-5540

J4ASF2A5X3D 012              AN/APY-1/-2 Transmitter Group 373 TRS/Det 9
                             (E-3)                         7710 1st Ave
                                                           Tinker AFB, OK, 73145
                                                           DSN 884-5540

*J4ASF2A5X3D 048             E-8C Surveillance Maintenance     373 TRS/Det 6
                             Technician                        625 9th St Ste A
                                                               Robins AFB, GA, 31098
                                                               DSN 468-5595

J4ASF2A5X3D 049              AN/APY-1/-2 RSIP Differences,     373 TRS/Det 9
                             Operation and Fault Isolation     7710 1st Ave
                             E-3                               Tinker AFB, OK, 73145
                                                               DSN 884-5540

J4ASF 2A5X3D 050             E-3 Radar Special Test Equipment 373 TRS/Det 9
                             Operation and Maintenance        7710 1st Ave
                                                              Tinker AFB, OK, 73145
                                                              DSN 884-5540

J4ASF2A5X3D-051              AN/APY-1/2 Analog Cabinet         373 TRS/Det 9
                             Group (E-3)                       7710 1st Ave
                                                               Tinker AFB, OK, 73145
                                                               DSN 884-5540



                                                  68
COURSE NUMBER              TITLE                              OPR
J4ASF2A6X2 057             Universal Maintenance              373 TRS/Det 9
                           Stand (UMS) Split Deck             7710 1st Ave
                           Operator                           Tinker AFB, OK, 73145
                                                              DSN 884-5540

J4ASF2A6X2 059             Aerospace Ground Operator          373 TRS/Det 9
                                                              7710 1st Ave
                                                              Tinker AFB, OK, 73145
                                                              DSN 884-5540

*J4ASF2A5X3D 000           E-8 Airborne Surveillance          373 TRS/Det 6
                           Radar Systems                      625 9th St Ste A
                           (FOLLOW-ON)                        Robins AFB, GA, 31098
                                                              DSN 468-5595

*J4ASF2A5X3D 001           E-3 Airborne Surveillance          373 TRS/Det 9
                           Radar Systems                      7710 1st Ave
                           (Apprentice Follow-on)             Tinker AFB, OK, 73145
                                                              DSN 884-5540

13. Extension Course Institute (ECI) Courses.
* Indicates course is mandatory.

COURSE NUMBER              TITLE                               OPR
*CDC2A553D                 Airborne Surveillance              365 TRS/TTCF
                           Radar System Journeyman            613 10th Ave
                                                              Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2335
                                                              DSN 736-1519

*CDC2A553E                 Airborne Warning and Control     365 TRS/TTCF
                           /Interrogator Systems Journeyman 613 10th Ave
                                                            Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2335
                                                            DSN 736-1519

*CDC2A573F                 Joint Surveillance Target Attack   365 TRS/TTCF
                           Radar System Journeyman            613 10th Ave
                                                              Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2335
                                                              DSN 736-1519

14. Courses Under Development/Revision.
Courses under development are included in paragraphs 11-13 and are indicated as (IN DEVELOPMENT)




                                                 69
SECTION E - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS
15. Currently only Air Combat Command has a MAJCOM mandatory course list (MMCL). MAJCOMs
change mandatory course requirements occasionally. Up-to-date ACC requirements can be obtained at
https://lg.acc.af.mil/lgq/lgqt/NEWLGQTHOME.htm. After access, click on "MMCL". Refer to the HQ ACC
MMCL for additional information.

16. Additional Courses available from ACC.
Contact the MAJCOM functional manager at DSN 574-3736 or the AETC training manager at DSN 736-7891.




                                              70
17. 2A5X3D STS COURSE MATRIX.
This training matrix contains training tasks for the mandatory FTD courses J4ASF2A5X3D-000 and
J4ASF2A5X3D-001 listed in section D paragraph 12. It should be used in conjunction with attachments
3 and 4 of this CFETP. Training task numbers and identities are consistent between attachments 3, 4
and this matrix. Training task A3.2.3.1.1, Screen Hierarchy in attachment 3 and the matrix are the same
task, and would include teaching the screen hierarchy of the RCMC on the AWACS aircraft. Training
task A4.8.3.1 would teach the procedures to replace the E-8 Radar Control Unit (RCU).


NOTE 1: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000, E-8 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems




                                                                                               J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001

                                                                                                                     J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001, E-3 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.




STS ITEM NUMBER
A3.2.2.1.1.1      Screen Hierarchy                                                             2b                     -
A3.2.2.1.1.2      Fast Fourier Transformer                                                     2b                     -
A3.2.2.1.1.3      Plan Position Indicator                                                      2b                     -
A3.2.2.1.1.4      RCDU Controls and Indicators                                                 2b                     -
A3.3.1.2.2.1 Perform measurements                                                              2b                     -
A3.3.1.2.2.2. Perform calculations                                                             2b
A3.3.1.2.9      Use Frequency Counter                                                          2b                     -
A3.3.1.2.10     Use Reflectometer                                                              2b                     -
A3.3.1.2.11     Oscilloscope                                                                   2b                     -
A3.3.1.2.12     Spectrum Analyzer                                                              2b                     -
A3.4.3. Perform Wire Wrapping                                                                  2b
A3.4.4. Replace Pickle Forks                                                                   2b
A3.4.5.1      Using Visual checks                                                              2b                     -
A3.4.5.2      Comparing test results with TO                                                   2b                     -
A3.4.5.3      Performing Symptoms analysis using TO diagrams                                   1b                     -
A3.4.5.4      Tracing Signals                                                                  1b                     -
A3.4.5.5      Performing Component substitution                                                2b                     -
A3.4.5.6      Performing Continuity Checks                                                     2b                     -
A3.4.5.7. Perform Rotary Joint Brush Block Inspection                                          2b
A3.4.5.8. Rotate the rotodome                                                                  2b



                                                           71
NOTE 1: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000, E-8 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems




                                                                              J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001

                                                                                                    J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001, E-3 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.




STS ITEM NUMBER
A3.6.1.1     RSIP Radar – Turn on procedures                                  2b                     -

A3.6.1.2 Interpret messages and verify performance                            2b                     -

A3.6.1.3     Mask Continuously Monitored Parameters                           2b                     -

A3.6.1.4     Inhibit Automatic Testing                                        2b                     -
A3.6.1.5     Reconfigure                                                      2b                     -
A3.6.1.6     RSIP Memory Functions                                            2b                     -
A3.6.1.7     RSIP Special Testing                                             2b                     -
A3.6.1.8 Initiate/Perform Individual Special Tests                            2b                     -
A3.6.1.9     Wake-up                                                          2b                     -
A3.6.1.10 RCA                                                                 2b                     -
A3.6.1.11 Initiate / Perform Radar Test                                       2b                     -
A3.6.1.12 Configuration Evaluation                                            2b                     -
A3.6.1.13 Non Interruptive Testing                                            b                      -
A3.6.1.14 Normal Power Down Procedures                                        2b                     -
A3.6.1.15 Emergency Power Down Procedures                                     b                      -
A3.6.2.1     Solenoid Current                                                 b                      -
A3.6.2.2     Beam Voltage                                                     b                      -
A3.6.2.3     Collector Current                                                b                      -
A3.6.2.4     KPA Burn In                                                      b                      -
A3.6.2.5     Average Power Calibration                                        b                      -
A3.6.2.6     TAC Peak Power                                                   b                      -
A3.6.2.7     TAC Curve Calibration                                            b                      -
A3.6.2.8     Phase Compensation Calibration                                   b                      -
A3.6.2.9     Reflected Power Calibration                                      b                      -
A3.6.2.10 Transmitter Peak Power Calibration                                  b                      -
A3.6.3.1.2     Path Insertion                                                 b                      -
A3.6.3.1.3     10db Loss Measurement                                          b                      -



                                                      72
NOTE 1: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000, E-8 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems




                                                                              J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001

                                                                                                    J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001, E-3 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.




STS ITEM NUMBER
A3.6.3.1.4      40db Loss Measurement                                         b                      -
A3.6.3.1.5      VCA Loss Measurement                                          b                      -
A3.6.3.1.6      Power Correction                                              b                      -
A3.6.3.1.7      Target Power Adjustment                                       b                      -
A3.6.3.1.8.1      Line Loss                                                   b                      -
A3.6.3.1.8.2      Noise Measurement                                           b                      -
A3.6.3.1.8.3      Noise Diode Calibration                                     b                      -
A3.6.4.1.1      RDP                                                           2b                     -
A3.6.4.1.2      Unit                                                          2b                     -
A3.6.4.1.3      System                                                        2b                     -
A3.6.5.1.1      RDP                                                           b                      -
A3.6.5.1.2      RIAU                                                          b                      -
A3.6.5.1.3      RCMC                                                          b                      -
A3.6.5.1.4      STALO                                                         b                      -
A3.6.5.1.5      Synchronizer                                                  b                      -
A3.6.5.1.6      Analog Receiver                                               b                      -
A3.6.5.1.7      ASP                                                           b                      -
A3.6.5.1.8      Rotodome                                                      b                      -
A3.6.5.1.9      Transmitter                                                   b                      -
A3.6.5.1.10     Maritime Receiver                                             b
A3.6.5.1.11     DLMB                                                          b
A3.6.5.2.1      Steering                                                      2b                     -
A3.6.5.2.2      RF                                                            2b                     -
A3.6.5.2.4      Perform operational checkout                                  2b                     -
A3.6.7.1      Reset and Recycle Control                                       2b                     -
A3.6.7.4      Edit Calibration Data                                           b                      -
A3.6.7.5      Copy RIAU EEPROM Data                                           b                      -



                                               73
NOTE 1: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000, E-8 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems




                                                                                    J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001

                                                                                                          J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001, E-3 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.




STS ITEM NUMBER
A3.6.8.1      Enter / Exit Console Mode                                             b                      -
A3.6.8.2      Mount / Dismount Disk                                                 b                      -
A3.6.8.3      Quicklook Testing                                                     b                      -
A3.6.8.4      RDP File Configuration                                                b                      -
A3.6.8.5      Poll RDP Circuits                                                     b                      -
A3.6.8.6      Disk Utilities                                                        b                      -
A3.6.8.7      EEPROM Maintenance                                                    b                      -
A4.3.1.2.5      Radio Frequency Line Test Set (RFLTS)                                -                    2b
A4.3.1.2.6      Network/LAN Analyzer                                                 -                    2b
A4.3.1.2.7      1553 Bus Analyzer                                                    -                    2b
A4.3.1.2.9      Time Domain Reflectometer (TDR)                                      -                    2b
A4.3.1.2.10     Multimeter                                                           -                    2b
A4.3.2.5        Line Replaceable Unit (LRU) Handling Dolly                           -                    2b
A4.3.2.6      Monorail and Handling Sling                                            -                    2b
A4.4.1     Schematic and Wiring Diagrams                                             -                    b
A4.5.1.1.1      Data Processing Subsystem                                            -                    2b
A4.5.1.1.2      Data Display Subsystem                                               -                    2b
A4.5.1.1.3      Radar Subsystem                                                      -                    2b
A4.5.1.2      Monitor and Control System Operation                                   -                    2b
A4.5.1.2.1      Operation of Radar Control Unit (RCU) Monitor                        -                    2b
A4.5.1.2.2      Operation of Performance Monitoring (PM) Background                  -                    2b
A4.5.1.2.3      Operation of Operation and Control Operational (OCO) Task Monitor    -                    2b
A4.5.1.3      Data Processing Subsystem (CRP)                                        -                    2b
A4.5.1.4      Data Display Subsystem (CRP)                                           -                    2b
A4.5.1.5      Radar Subsystem (CRP)                                                  -                    2b
A4.5.1.6      Configure Equipment for Operational Use                                -                    2b
A4.5.1.9      Terminate PME System operation                                         -                    2b



                                                             74
NOTE 1: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000, E-8 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems




                                                                              J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001

                                                                                                    J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001, E-3 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.




STS ITEM NUMBER
A4.5.1.10.1     Radar Referenced Coverage Area                                 -                    2b
A4.5.1.10.2     Ground Referenced Coverage Area                                -                    2b
A4.5.1.10.3     Sector Search                                                  -                    2b
A4.5.1.10.4     Synthetic Aperture Radar                                       -                    2b
A4.5.1.10.5     Antenna Patterns                                               -                    2b
A4.5.2.3      Data Processing Subsystem (CRP)                                  -                    2b
A4.5.2.3.1      Central Computer (CC)                                          -                    2b
A4.5.2.4      Data Display Subsystem (CRP)                                     -                    2b
A4.5.2.4.1      OWSDP                                                          -                    2b
A4.5.2.6.1      RSG                                                            -                    2b
A4.5.2.6.2      RSE                                                            -                    2b
A4.5.2.6.3     RCU                                                             -                    2b
A4.5.2.6.4      RASP                                                           -                    2b
A4.5.3.3      Data Processing Subsystem (CRP)                                  -                    2b
A4.5.3.4      Data Display Subsystem (CRP)                                     -                    2b
A4.5.3.5      Radar Subsystem                                                  -                    2b
A4.5.4.1      Operational Readiness Test (ORT)                                 -                    b
A4.5.4.2      Online Tests                                                     -                    b
A4.5.4.3      Diagnostic Tests                                                 -                    b
A4.6.1        Operational Readiness Test (ORT) results                         -                    b
A4.6.2        On-line Testing results                                          -                    b
A4.6.3        Diagnostic Testing results                                       -                    b
A4.6.5        Perform Visual checks                                            -                    b
A4.6.6        Compare Test Results with TO                                     -                    b
A4.6.9        Perform Component Substitution                                   -                    2b
A4.6.10       Perform Continuity Checks                                        -                    2b
A4.7.5.       Enter and Exit Forward Lower Lobe                                -                    2b



                                                         75
NOTE 1: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000, E-8 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems




                                                                              J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001

                                                                                                    J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-000
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Course J4AMF/ASF2A5X3D-001, E-3 Airborne Surveillance Radar Systems
(Follow-on) is mandatory for all 2A5X3D personnel assigned to E-8 aircraft.




STS ITEM NUMBER
A4.7.2.1     Operation of MLV Utility                                          -                    2b
A4.7.2.1.1        RSE MLV Utility                                              -                    2b
A4.7.2.1.2        RCU MLV Utility                                              -                    2b
A4.7.2.1.4        RASP                                                         -                    2b
A4.7.2.2.1         RSE      OPS-113a                                           -                    2b
A4.7.2.2.2         RCU OPS-114a                                                -                    2b
A4.7.2.2.4         RASP OPS-199a (CRP)                                         -                    2b
A4.7.2.2.5         General Equipment OPS-118a                                  -                    2b
A4.8.2.1     Display Unit                                                      -                    2b
A4.8.4.1     Radar Control Unit (RCU)                                          -                    2b
A4.8.4.5     Receiver Analog to Digital Converter                              -                    2b
A4.8.4.6     Antenna Servo Electronics (ASE)                                   -                    2b
A4.8.4.7     Exciter (XCTR)                                                    -                    2b
A4.8.4.8     High Power Combiner (HPC)                                         -                    2b
A4.8.4.9     Transmitters                                                      -                    2b
A4.8.4.10 Waveguide Assemblies                                                 -                    2b
A4.8.5.14 Rotary Electromechanical Actuator Assembly (B1, B2)                  -                    2b
A4.8.6.1     CC                                                                -                    2b
A4.8.6.2     CCVME (SRU)                                                       -                    2b
A4.8.6.3     CCMSD                                                             -                    2b
A4.8.6.4     Remote Memory Module (RMM)                                        -                    2b
A4.8.6.5     LAN Hub (GIGA switch) (SRU)                                       -                    2b
A4.8.6.8     FDDI Interconnect Cables                                          -                    2b
A4.8.7.1     RASP (SRU)                                                        -                    2b
A4.8.8.1     OWS Data Processor                                                -                    2b
A4.8.8.5     Data Entry Device                                                 -                    2b




                                                        76
