DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             CFETP 4N0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                                 Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1000                                                                 25 June 2014



                                AFSCs 4N0X1X
                          AEROSPACE MEDICAL SERVICE




                               CAREER FIELD
                        EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil
for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                       AEROSPACE MEDICAL SERVICE
                                               AFSC 4N0X1X

                                                                 Table of Contents

PART I

Preface ...................................................................................................................... 4
Abbreviations/Forms/Terms Explained .................................................................. 5
Section A, General Information ...............................................................................9
       Purpose
       Use
       Coordination and Approval
Section B, Career Progression and Information ........................................................ 10
       Specialty Descriptions
              Skill and Career Progression
              Apprentice Level (3)
              Journeyman Level (5)
              Craftsman Level (7)
              Superintendent Level (9)
              Chief Enlisted Manager Level (0)
              Training Decisions
              Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
              Career Field Path
Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements ........................................................ 21
               Purpose
               Training Requirements
               Apprentice Level (3)
               Journeyman Level (5)
               Craftsman Level (7)
               Superintendent Level (9)
Section D, Resource Constraints .............................................................................. 23
Section E, Transitional Training Guide ................................................................... 23




                                                                              2
PART II

Section A, Specialty Training Standards ................................................................. 24
      STS Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1)
      STS Squadron Medical Element (SME)
      STS Allergy/Immunization (A/I) Technician (SEI 453)
      STS Hemodialysis (SEI 486)
      STS Critical Care Technician (SEI 487)
      STS Hyperbaric (SEI 490)
      STS Aeromedical Evacuation (SEI 494)
      STS Neurodiagnostic Technologist (4N0X1B)
      STS Independent Duty Medical Technician (4N0X1C)
      STS Special Operations Command Medic (SEI 455)
      STS Flight and Operational Medical Technician (4N0X1F) (SEI 470)
      STS National Registry Paramedic (SEI 456)
Training Reference Bibliography of Commercial and Other Service Publications
Section B, Course Objective List ............................................................................. 78
Section C, Support Materials ................................................................................... 78
          Qualification Training Packages (QTP)
Section D, Training Course Index ........................................................................... 83
Section E, MAJCOM-Unique Requirements ........................................................... 84
          Air Force Reserve
          Air National Guard
Section F, Documentation of Training ..................................................................... 86
          Part 1 – Air Force Training Record (AFTR)
          Part 2 – Work Center Training Binder
          Part 3 – ITR Documentation Examples




________________________________________________________________________________
OPR: HAF/SG1E
Certified by: CMSgt Michael J. Steiner (HAF/SG1E)
Supersedes: CFETP4N0X1/B/C, 7 April 2007; CFETP4N0X1/B/CC1, 1 November 2012
Pages: 88



                                                                     3
                                   AEROSPACE MEDICAL SERVICE
                                               AFSC 4N0X1X
                        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
PART I
PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document identifying the legal scope of practice within the Air Force Medical Service, life-cycle
education/training requirements, training support resources, and core task requirements for this specialty. The
CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career field
training. The clear expectation is that Aerospace Medical Service personnel be utilized to the full extent of
their scope of practice/responsibility.
2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors plan, manage, and control training within the specialty using
both parts of the plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialties. Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM) directs that a copy of Part I be maintained in every work center. Section A explains how
everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and other). Section D indicates resource
constraints. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, facilities. Section E identifies transition
training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the specialty training standard (STS) and includes
duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) courses,
USAF School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM) courses, tasks identified as having a QTPs, core tasks, and
correspondence course requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and training standards,
which supervisors will use to determine if Airmen have satisfied training requirements. Section C identifies
available support materials such as, the QTPs that have been developed and are mandatory for use to support
OJT. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine resources available to
support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section E identifies Major
commands (MAJCOM) -unique training requirements that supervisors can use to determine additional training
required for the associated qualification needs. Section F is specific to medical AFSCs providing guidance on
required documentation in the Enlisted Training Record (ETR). At the unit level, supervisors and trainers use
Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.
3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP, will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and
efficient training at the appropriate points in their career. This plan will enable us to train today’s work force
for tomorrow’s jobs.

To read, review, or print a copy of the current CFETP, go to http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.




                                                       4
ABBREVIATIONS/FORMS/TERMS EXPLAINED

ADVON – Advanced Echelon
AES – Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron
AFMMAST – Air Force Medical Modeling and Simulation Training
CASEVAC – Casualty Evacuation
CSAR – Combat Search and Rescue
ECAS – Electrical Cable Assembly Set
ETCF – Enlisted Training and Competency Folder
ICS – Intercom System
IDMT – Independent Duty Medical Technician
MM&S – Medical Modeling and Simulation
OPlans – Operation Plans
SOF – Special Operations Forces
TPMRC – Theater Patient Movement Requirements Center
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder
AF Form 623a, On-The-Job Training Record-Continuation Sheet
AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS
AF Form 803, Report of Task Evaluations
AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training
AF Form 2096, Classification On-The-Job Training Action
AF Form 4023, Aircrew Training Progress Report
AF Form 4024, Aircrew Training Accomplishment Report
AF Form 4025, Aircrew Summary/Closeout Report

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course providing individuals who are qualified in one or more positions of
their Air Force specialty (AFS) with additional skills and knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career
field; training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.
Aeromedical Evacuation (AIR EVAC). Regulated patient movement on fixed wing aircraft.
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The Air Force focal point for the designated career field within
a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing issues and
coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the career field policy and guidance.
Air Force Medical Modeling and Simulation Training (AFMMAST) Program. Entity designated as the
Center for Excellence for MM&S and has oversight of all MM&S training throughout the Air Force Medical
Service (AFMS).
AFMMAST Portal. MM&S community of practice source for the AFMS located at:
https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx9/RSVP/Pages/RSVP_Checklists_Enlisted.aspx .
Air Reserve Components (ARC). Term is used as an overarching term when referring to both the Air
National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) together.
Career Development Course (CDC). Nonresident, student instruction materials (self-study correspondence
course) designed to provide Airmen with the fundamental knowledge of their AFS.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). CFETP is a comprehensive core training document
that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support resources, and minimum core
task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry
in career field training. It is the formal training contract between the AFCFM and AETC for formal accession



                                                      5
and life-cycle skills training. *NOTE: The 4N0X1X CFETP establishes the legal scope of
practice/responsibility for medical technicians.
Casualty Evacuation (CASEVAC). The movement of a casualty from the point of injury to medical
treatment using a platform of opportunity.
Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.
Certification Official (also known as Task Certifier). A person whom the commander assigns to determine
an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.
Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements for everyone within an AFSC.
Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course training standard,
identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve the initial
3-skill level and subsequent SEIs in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate
evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.
Functional Manager (FM). Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate functional authority who provide
day-to-day management responsibility over specific functional communities at the MAJCOM, field operating
agencies (FOA), direct reporting unit (DRU), or ARC level. While they should maintain an institutional focus
in regards to resource development and distribution, FMs are responsible for ensuring their specialties are
equipped, developed, and sustained to meet the functional community’s mission as well as encourage force
development opportunities to meet future needs of the total Air Force mission.
Go. In On-the-Job Training (OJT), the stage at which a trainee has gained enough skill, knowledge, and
experience to perform the tasks without supervision. (“Go” level equates to 3c in the STS proficiency code
key.)
Home Station Training. Includes all training required to perform in the current duty position to include duty
position tasks, core tasks, READY program tasks, contingency tasks, and additional duty tasks.
Immunization Augmentee (IA). 4N0X1’s trained to assist with mass military immunizations programs
administering only one vaccine at a time. The IA will work under the supervision of an Allergy/Immunization
(A/I) Technician or Immunization Back-up Technician.
Immunization Back-Up Technician (IBT). 4N0X1 personnel trained to administer immunizations in the
Immunizations Clinic, and other outpatient clinics, in support of mobility processing lines as determined by
Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) and the Master Training Plan. IBTs will not serve as permanent NCOIC of
immunization clinics. Since the ARC component does not have A/I technicians, IBTs may serve as
Immunizations Clinic Non-Commissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) for ARC only. IBTs are not qualified
nor will they administer allergy and related immunotherapy treatments. NOTE: All IBTs will train to the
knowledge level on anthrax and small pox. Those appointed in writing by the MTF SGP will receive
administration training and will be authorized to administer these vaccinations. Appropriate documentation
will be made on electronic AF Form 623a.
Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for enlisted or
mandatory training for upgrade to qualify for officers.
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible, process for planning,
developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. ISD ensures personnel are taught, in a cost
efficient way, the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job performance.
Master Task List (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center and
consisting of the current CFETP or Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS) and locally developed
AF Form 797, (as a minimum). Should include tasks required for deployment and/or Unit Type Code (UTC)
requirements.

                                                      6
Master Training Plan (MTP). Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center job
requirements by using a MTL and provides milestones for task, CDC completion, and prioritizes
deployment/UTC, home station training tasks, upgrade, and qualification tasks.
Medical Evacuation (MEDEVAC). The movement of a casualty from the point of injury to medical
treatment using medically equipped vehicles or aircraft.
Medical Treatment Facility (MTF). Any USAF facility (area medical center, regional hospital, clinic, or
other medical unit) that provides health care to active duty members and their dependents, or retired military
members and their dependents. MTFs are also locations where patient care training is conducted.
MM&S. Discipline that encompasses the development and/or use of medical models and simulation.
Model. A physical, mathematical, or otherwise logical representation of a system, entity, phenomenon, or
process.
No Go. Trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform task without supervision.
Does not meet task standard.
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of
tasks performed within a particular AFS.
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, directly supervised training conducted to certify personnel in both
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.
Phase II Training. Clinical training that is a continuation of a formal resident course that provides Airmen
with realistic hands-on experience before beginning OJT at the permanent duty location.
Qualification Training (QT). Hands-on performance training designed to qualify personnel in a specific
position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-date qualifications.
Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to qualify, or
aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer-based,
or in other audiovisual media.
Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP). AFSC sustainment training designed to ensure all members
with a fully qualified AFSC maintain the currency of skills to perform their duties in a deployed setting.
NOTE: Refer to the following website for AFSC specific readiness skills training
https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx9/RSVP/Pages/home.aspx.
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment that
preclude desired training from being delivered.
Scope of Practice/Responsibility. The extent or range of subject knowledge, task knowledge, and task
performance that Aerospace Medical Service personnel apply in the performance of duty at the appropriate skill
level. Procedures to request a Scope of Practice Waiver are outlined in AFI 44-119, Medical Quality
Operations.
Seasoning Training Program (STP). Seasoning training is intended for members who are not in or pursuing
a related civilian occupation or assigned to a unit that does not have the capability or accessibility to any
facilities by which the member would acquire skill proficiency verification for 3-level and possibly 5-level
upgrade may utilize this training.
Simulation. A method for implementing a model over time.
Special Experience Identifier (SEI). A three-number code that identifies special experience and training not
otherwise identified in the personnel data system.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication (typically inserted as Part 2 of the CFETP)
describing an Air Force specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an Airman in that specialty may be expected
to perform or to know on the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level
within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of
                                                      7
the overall training requirements for an Air Force specialty code (AFSC) are taught in formal schools and
correspondence courses.
Standard. A predetermined quality or quantity, against which performance skills and knowledge is measured.
An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, the appropriate authority, custom, or common consent
sets up and defines to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities, developing
practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.
Sustainment Training. Recurring training required to maintain skills of a qualified individual to perform the
duties required by the 4N0X1X AFSCs. To include: formal training courses, ACLS, in-service training, and
exercises.
Task. An observable and measurable unit of work activity or operation that forms a part of a duty, with one or
more duties making up a job.
Task Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included in the training decision
process.
Task Certifier. See Certification Official.
Third Party Certification. Is an evaluation of completed training conducted by the task certifier, and is only
required when directed by the AFCFM.
Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the United
States Air Force.
Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks through OJT
methods. Also, equipment that the trainer uses to teach personnel specified tasks.
Training Capability. The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider the availability of
resources (such as equipment, reference materials, qualified trainers, etc.) when determining a unit’s training
capability.
Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training that leads to the attainment of a higher level of proficiency.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum led by the AFCFM and the AETC Training Pipeline
Manager that incorporates the expertise of MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), subject matter experts
(SME), AETC, and other training personnel to determine career ladder training requirements.




                                                      8
SECTION A – GENERAL INFORMATION
1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the AFCFM, MFMs, commanders, training
managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field
training program. The plan outlines training that individuals in this AFS should receive in order to develop and
progress throughout their career. The plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and
proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into
the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. The 937th Training Group
(937 TRG) at Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA), Fort Sam Houston, TX and USAF School of Aerospace Medicine
(USAFSAM) at Wright-Patterson AFB, OH, provides initial and advanced skills training. Upgrade training
identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion
requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill level. Qualification training is actual hands-on task
performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs
both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and
knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen.
Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or OJT
provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The
CFETP has several purposes—some are:
1.1. Serve as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training program.
Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual’s career. NOTE:
This CFETP is to be utilized as a credential file for all 4N0X1Xs, and is the guide to establish scope of
practice/responsibility for each individual.
1.2. Identify task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty. It describes the
scope of practice/responsibility in the Aerospace Medical Service specialty. Also, it recommends training and
education throughout each phase of an individual’s career.
1.3. List training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training delivery
method.
1.4. Identify major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field training
program.
2. Use. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive and cohesive
training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.
2.1. AETC and USAFSAM training personnel will develop and or revise formal resident, non-resident, and
exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP.
They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to
provide the identified training.
2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and
proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy identified
requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion into this
plan and must not duplicate already available training.
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of
courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority for the CFETP and will initiate an
annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM representatives and AETC and
USAFSAM training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the
list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training. They will submit, through proper channels, all
initial and subsequent changes to the CFETP. Additionally, this document has been reviewed by the Assistant
Surgeon General, Nursing Services.
3.1. To request a waiver for required items in the CFETP, refer to AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

                                                       9
SECTION B – CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION
1. Specialty Description.
1.1. Specialty Summary. Plans, provides, and evaluates routine patient care and treatment of beneficiaries
to include flying and special operational duty personnel. Organizes the medical environment, performs and
directs support activities for patient care situations, including contingency operations and disasters. Performs
duty as Independent Duty Medical Technician (IDMT), Aeromedical Evacuation Technician (AET),
Hyperbaric Medical Technician (HBMT); Allergy and/or Immunization Technician (AIT), Special Operations
Command (SOC) Medic, Dialysis Medical Technician (DMT), Critical Care Technician (CCT),
Neurodiagnostic Technologist (NDT), or Flight and Operational Medicine Technician (FOMT). Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 130000
1.2. Duties and Responsibilities.
1.2.1. Provides, supervises and manages patient care of beneficiaries to include flying and special operational
duty personnel. Performs nursing tasks. Acts as Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH) member or team
leader. Front-line preventionist who identifies potential health risks and provides preventative counseling.
Performs paraprofessional portions of preventative health assessments and physical examinations. Monitors
and records physiological measurements. Orients patients to the hospital environment. Admits, discharges,
and transfers patients as directed. Observes, reports, and records observations in patient progress notes and
team conferences. Performs portions of medical treatment, diagnostic, and therapeutic procedures. Cares for,
observes, and reports on pre/post-operative, seriously or critically ill, and injured patients. Records treatments
and procedures rendered and observe effects. Performs postmortem care. Identifies patient problems and
assists in developing and evaluating patient care plan(s). Assembles, operates, and maintains therapeutic
equipment. Provides field medical care in contingency operations and disasters. Performs basic life support
and triage in emergency situations. Serves as member of primary emergency medical response to in-flight
emergencies and potential mass casualty scenarios for on- and off-base incidents. Operates emergency
medical and other vehicles. Loads and unloads litter patients. Participates in contingency or disaster field
training, exercises, and deployments. Augments search and rescue flying squadrons. Obtains and maintains
linen and supplies/areas. Disposes of medical waste. Maintains inpatient and outpatient medical records.
Screens medical records for deployability and other medical administrative requirements. Prepares and
submits administrative reports. Manages supplies and equipment, submits and executes budgets.
Coordinates medical service activities with execution and clinical management teams. Utilizes the nursing
process for promoting and maintaining patient health. Provides disease and disability education, care, and
evaluation of nursing care. Participates in and leads the planning, implementation, and evaluation of nursing
care. Performs assessment and analysis of patient health status, identifies health goals, recognizes subtle
changes in conditions, interprets these changes, and immediately determines appropriate course of action.
1.2.2. Supervises personnel, conducts training, and creates duty schedules. Schedules and/or conducts
in-service training on procedures, techniques, and equipment. Schedules and/or conducts periodic disaster
training, fire drills, and evacuation procedures. Provides training to medical and non-medical personnel.
Training may include areas such as emergency medical technician and required basic life support training.
1.2.3. Performs duty as an IDMT at home station and deployed locations, remote sites and alternate care
locations. Renders medical, dental, and emergency treatment; recommends and coordinates evacuations for
definitive medical treatment. Performs pharmacy, laboratory, bioenvironmental, immunizations, public
health, medical logistics, and medical administration duties. Establishes preceptorship and provides forward
area health care in accordance with (IAW) applicable guidelines in an austere or bare-base environment.
1.2.3.1. Special Operations Command (SOC) Medics perform special operations medical support providing
initial combat trauma stabilization, on-going field trauma care, and CASEVAC to definitive care.
1.2.3.2. SOC medics are ideally suited to SOF and CSAR mission support for establishing bare-base
encampments.
1.2.4. Performs aeromedical evacuation (AE) ground and/or flight duties. Performs pre-flight/inflight patient

                                                      10
care and documentation. Provides emergency care for patients in event of medical and/or aircraft emergencies.
Functions as an aeromedical evacuation crewmember. Prepares patients, equipment and aircraft for flight.
Enplanes and deplanes patients. Loads and unloads baggage. Operates specialized aircraft flight equipment,
medical devices and aircraft systems related to patient care.
1.2.5. Performs allergy and/or immunization (AI) duties.
1.2.5.1. Allergy. Manages immunotherapy care and performs diagnostic tests as ordered by physician.
Prepares allergenic extracts and/or specific allergy treatment extracts. Performs allergy skin and anergy
testing.
1.2.5.2. Immunization. Manages computer based patient information. Performs tuberculosis testing.
Administers vaccines IAW current guidelines. Provides emergency care for treatment of anaphylaxis.
Provides patient education regarding expected reactions and proper post-vaccination care. Provides oversight
of immunization processes and programs. Manages the Immunization Backup Technician (IBT) program.
1.2.6. Performs Neurodiagnostic duties. Assists physician with and prepares patients for examination,
treatment, and diagnostic procedures. Assembles, operates, maintains and performs routine user maintenance
of electroencephalographic and electromyographic equipment. Assists in performing special
electroencephalographic and electromyographic procedures. Ensures appropriate care and storage of tracings
and reports.
1.2.7. Performs critical care duties. Prepares patient with special equipment for transfers. Performs and
assists with examinations and special procedures including mechanical ventilation, cardiovascular and
neurovascular procedures and dialysis.
1.2.8. Performs hyperbaric medical duties. Prepares patients and equipment for hyperbaric dive.
Provides wound care debridement. Prepares hyperbaric chamber and properly positions patients. Functions
as hyperbaric dive crewmember. Assists hyperbaric nurse or provider with patient care during dive. Provides
emergency care for patients in event of medical or hyperbaric chamber emergencies.
1.2.9. Performs dialysis duties. Prepares patient and performs procedures using specialized renal dialysis
equipment.
1.2.10. Performs flight and operational medicine duties. Assists flight surgeon with aircraft mishap and
physiological incident response, investigation, and reporting. Supports flight surgeon to develop flying safety
and deployment briefings. Assists healthcare provider teams with interpretation and application of medical
standards to determine medical qualifications for occupational duty, worldwide duty, mobility status, flying
status, special duty, security clearance, professional military education (PME), retraining, commissioning, and
transition to Air Force Reserves or ANG. Provides administrative management of duty limiting conditions
reports. Assists with oversight of waiver management utilizing the Aircrew Information Management Waiver
Tracking System. Maintains grounding management on all aircrew assigned utilizing the Aeromedical
Services Information Management Systems (ASIMS). Performs the paraprofessional portion of initial flying
class/special operational duty physicals. Conducts clinical entries for data into the Physical Examination
Processing Program and manages physical until completion. Provides first point of contact for on-empanelled
patients requiring physical examinations (i.e. Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board,
Reserve Officer Training Corps, and others that are an extension of the occupational exam). Performs
preventive health assessment physicals for flying status and non-flying status personnel and updates results of
required tests and examinations into ASIMS.
2. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its mission. It is essential
that everyone involved in training do his/her part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program.
The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at
appropriate points in their career. NOTE: Individuals who hold a current National Registry Paramedic
(NRP) certification meet the intent of the National Registry of Emergency Medical Technician (NREMT)
requirement.

                                                      11
2.1. Apprentice Level (3). Initial skills training in this specialty consist of the tasks and knowledge training
provided in the 3-skill level resident course conducted at JBSA, Fort Sam Houston, TX. This course includes 2
days of Expeditionary Medical Readiness Course. Successful completion (no more than 3 attempts) and award
of the NREMT certification is mandatory. Upon graduation from the resident course, students will attend the
3-skill level Phase II course located at one of the Phase II training facilities. Individuals must successfully
complete both the resident and Phase II courses to be awarded AFSC 4N031. NOTE: Refer to the Education
and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for current course numbers.
2.2. Journeyman Level (5). Upgrade training to the 5-skill level in this specialty consists of completing (1)
CDC 4N051A and 4N051B; (2) all STS core tasks (including core task QTPs); and (3) at a minimum, 12
months UGT (9 months for retrainees). Current certification as an NREMT is mandatory.
2.3. Craftsman Level (7). Upgrade training to the 7-skill level in this specialty consists of completing (1)
CDC 4N071; (2) all STS core tasks (including core task QTPs); (3) 12 months UGT (6 months for retrainees).
Current certification as an NREMT is mandatory.
2.4. Superintendent Level (9). To be awarded AFSC 4N091, an individual must be a SMSgt (sewn on).
Current certification as an NREMT is mandatory.
2.5. Chief Enlisted Manager Level (0). AFSC/CEM code 4N000 awarded upon selection for promotion to
CMSgt. Current certification as an NREMT is mandatory when filling a 4N091 UTC requirement.
2.6. USAF Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Program.
2.6.1. Responsibilities:
2.6.1.1. Approves continuing education (CE). These include any subject covered in the National EMS
Educational Guidelines. Other topics must be approved by the USAF EMS Program Manager prior to the
offering date.
2.6.1.2. Notifies NREMT and Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) training sites of CE approval.
2.6.1.3. Provides guidance to NREMT and course coordinators on EMS CE within Air Force Aerospace
Medical Service arena.
2.6.1.4. Investigates possible breeches of program integrity.
2.6.1.5. Air Force liaison to Board of Directors NREMT. Personnel should contact the USAF EMS Program
Manager on all matters prior to contacting the NREMT.
2.6.1.6. Conducts medical incident investigations and functions as the subject matter expert in malpractice
cases involving enlisted personnel in the performance of EMT and/or Paramedic duties, as requested.
2.6.2. Medical Director. A licensed physician responsible for the overall management, maintenance, and
integrity of local program.
2.6.3. EMT Course Coordinator.
2.6.3.1. Acts as liaison between students, MTF executive staff, local medical community, and USAF EMS
Program Manager.
2.6.3.2. Coordinates and/or conducts didactic and skills training for all assigned NREMT personnel.
2.6.3.3. Ensures all documentation on NREMT re-registration application is complete and accurate by 31
January of the recertification year before signing.
2.6.4. Supervisor.
2.6.4.1. Ensures each member has resources required for training and testing.
2.6.4.2. Reviews and ensures accuracy of documentation before re-registration form is submitted to EMT
Course Coordinator for validation.

                                                     12
2.6.4.3. Works with EMT Course Coordinator and individual EMTs and NRPs ensuring no lapse in
registration.
2.6.4.4. Refers individuals to EMT Course Coordinator for remedial training when required.
2.6.4.5. Acts as liaison between EMT and NRP Course Coordinator.
2.6.5. EMT.
2.6.5.1. The EMT and NRP is ultimately responsible for successful completion of all training and testing
requirements.
2.6.5.2. Completes all requirements for re-registration by NREMT ensuring no lapses in registration occur.
2.6.5.3. Works with supervisor and EMT Course Coordinator to ensure access to required training.
2.6.5.4. Ensures all tasks are properly documented in electronic training record and on NREMT re-registration
form. If using only 4N0X1 QTPs for EMT CE, document training on AF Form 1098.
2.6.5.5. If pre-deployment timeline permits, personnel coming due for re-registration during deployment
should contact the USAF EMS Program Manager as soon as the individual is notified of deployment.
2.6.5.6. Requests remedial training when needed.
2.6.5.7. Ensures required funding and documents are forwarded with NREMT re-registration package.
2.6.6. Re-registration documentation.
2.6.6.1. NREMT re-registration application will be completed on the NREMT website by 31 January of the
recertification year.
2.6.6.2. The USAF EMT Refresher Course Completion Tracking Tool will be used to document EMT
refresher training conducted at Air Force locations and substitute for the course completion certificate. This
tool is located on the Aerospace Medical Service CFM Home page at
https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx3/AerospaceMedicalServiceCFM/Pages/home.aspx.
2.6.6.3. Proof of current Basic Life Support (BLS) certification will also be attached to the re-registration
application.
2.6.6.4. Contingency Re-registration Procedures. Personnel currently deployed in support of contingency
operations should contact the USAF EMS Program Manager for guidelines on conducting training and possible
re-registration extension.
2.6.7. Expired Registration.
2.6.7.1. Individuals who allow their NREMT or NRP certification to lapse will be decertified in all NREMT
skills listed as an NREMT core task and will neither perform pre-hospital emergency care nor be assigned duties
on ambulances or in emergency services. Individuals will have 6 months to complete all recertification
requirements. These individuals are not deployable assets, and therefore, must not be assigned to a deployable
UTC position.
2.6.7.2. Individuals who fail to maintain or re-obtain this mandatory certification within 6 months of
expiration will have the AFSC withdrawn IAW AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officers and
Enlisted).
2.6.7.3. AFSC withdrawal process starts 1 October of the recertification year. Once the member has expired,
the EMT or NRP Refresher course, skills exam, and NREMT exam are required for recertification within 6
months.
2.6.8. NREMT Exemptions. 4N0X1personnel completing special duty assignments outside CAFSC (to
include MTL, MTI, PME, etc.) are highly encouraged to maintain their certification while performing those
duties, and will have up to 6 months upon returning to the 4N0X1 career field to re-establish their NREMT
certification.

                                                      13
 3. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the
 entire spectrum of training requirements for the Aerospace Medical Service specialty. The spectrum includes
 a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and
 affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. Decisions were
 made as to the content of the CFETP during the Aerospace Medical Service Utilization and Training
 Workshop, at JBSA, Fort Sam Houston, TX.
 3.1. Proficiency Training. Core tasks, QTPs, and other requirements for 5-and 7-skill levels have been
 established, updated and reviewed. STS for SOC medics (SEI 455), Paramedic (SEI 456) and FOMT ("F"
 shred and SEI 470) were developed, reviewed and approved. All other STSs were reviewed, updated and
 approved.
 3.2. NREMT Certification. Requirement for mandatory certification up through X4N091X was discussed
 and approved.
 4. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic
 military training (BMT). CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate of Practical Nursing
 Technology degree. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:
 4.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC I, II, III). Upon completion of instructor qualification training,
 consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors who possess an
 associate’s degree or higher may be nominated by their school commander/commandant for certification as an
 occupational instructor. (Reference CCAF Policies, Procedures, and Guidelines.
 4.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is
 awarded for the primary occupational specialty. CCAF uses a competency based assessment process for trade
 skill certification at one of the four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman (Supervisor), or
 Superintendent (Manager). All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.
 4.3. Degree requirements. Degree programs consist of a minimum of 64 semester hours (SH) with
 requirements typically as follows: A student needs to hold the journeyman (5) level in the appropriate AFSC
 at time of program completion. The following requirements must be met:
 Leadership, management and military studies; physical education; general education; and program elective
 requirements are identical for all programs.
 A student needs to hold the journeyman (5) level in the appropriate AFSC at time of program completion.
 Attaining the journeyman level is waived for a student in occupational specialties that do not have journeyman
 levels.


                           Subject                                           Semester Hours
      Technical Education                                                          24
      Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                                  6
      Physical Education                                                            4
      General Education                                                            15
      Program Electives                                                            15
      Total Requirement:                                                           64


A student must have a minimum of 16 SHs of CCAF credit applied to his/her degree program to graduate. The
16-semester-hour residency requirement is only satisfied by credit earned for BMT or coursework completed in
an affiliated school or through internship credit awarded for progression in an Air Force occupational specialty.




                                                       14
4.3.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours). Twenty-four (24) semester hours are required to fulfill the
technical education requirement. Twelve (12) semester hours must be applied from the technical core area with
the remaining twelve (12) applied from either the technical core or the technical elective areas.


                                                 Technical Core
                   Subject/ Courses                                         Semester Hours
   CCAF Internship                                                                18
   Emergency Medicine                                                              3
   Human Anatomy and Physiology                                                    8
   Kinesiology                                                                    12
   Medical Assisting                                                              24
   Nursing                                                                        24
   Occupational Therapy                                                           24
   Orthotics                                                                      24

Technical education requirements are generally satisfied by entry-level and advanced degree-applicable courses at
affiliated schools and through internship. However, additional technical education requirements may be satisfied
by application of courses accepted in transfer, testing credit, independent study or correspondence, certification,
licensure, or registry.

Courses that are closely aligned by definition to the subject areas listed below may apply toward fulfilling specific
technical elective requirements.

                                             Technical Electives
                  Subject/Courses                                    Maximum Semester Hours
 Computer Science                                                             6
 General Biology                                                              8
 General Chemistry                                                            8
 General Psychology                                                           3
 Medical Readiness                                                            3
 Medical Terminology                                                          3
 Pharmacology                                                                 3
 Survival Training                                                            3

4.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (LMMS) Requirement (6 Semester Hours).
LMMS requirement may be satisfied by applying professional military education, civilian courses accepted in
transfer and/or by testing credit. However, the preferred method of completing LMMS is through attending an
airman leadership school (ALS), NCO academy (NCOA), and/or Air Force Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA).
The LMMS must emphasize the fundamentals of management and management of human resources. Examples
of acceptable courses are Principles of Management, Personnel Management, Human Resource Management,
Principles of Supervision and Organizational Behavior. Examples of unacceptable courses are Small Business
Management, Managerial Accounting, Financial Management, Labor and Management Relations, and other
specialized management and/or business courses.
4.3.3. Physical Education Requirement (4 Semester Hours). Completing BMT satisfies the semester-hour
physical education requirement. Civilian courses do not apply to this requirement.
4.3.4. General Education Requirement (15 Semester Hours). The general education requirement is
satisfied by applying courses accepted in transfer or by testing credit. Courses required to satisfy the general
education requirement are as follows:
                                                        15
                          Subject/Courses                                  Semester Hours
 Oral Communication (Speech)                                                     3
 Written Communication (English Composition)                                     3
 Mathematics: Intermediate algebra or a college-level
 mathematics course is required. If an acceptable mathematics                      3
 course is applied as a technical or program elective, a natural
 science course may be substituted for mathematics.
 Social Science: Anthropology, archaeology, economics,
 geography, government, history, political science, psychology,                    3
 sociology
 Humanities: Fine arts (history, criticism, and appreciation),
 foreign language, literature, philosophy, religion                                3

4.3.5. Program Elective Requirement (15 Semester Hours). Satisfied with applicable Technical Education:
LMMS; or General Education subjects/courses, including natural science courses meeting general education
requirement application criteria. Six (6) semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical credit otherwise
not applicable to this program may be applied.
4.3.6. Professional Credentialing. For professional nursing credentialing, students should complete courses
in college algebra, introductory psychology, sociology and lab courses in human anatomy and physiology,
general chemistry, and microbiology. These courses are generally required in nursing programs and are
applicable to this program.
5. AETC and USAFSAM Instructor Requirements. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice
encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC or USAFSAM Instructor should be actively
pursuing a CCAF associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the
Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                       16
6. Career Field Path.
                                       Development and Utilization Across a 30-year Career

Enlisted Career Field Path.
                                               Grade Requirement
 Education and Training Requirements           Rank           Average Sew-On           Earliest Sew-on            High Year of Tenure
                                                                                                                  (HYT)
 Basic Military Training School
 Apprentice Technical School                   AB                6 months
 (3-skill level)                               AMN               10 months
                                               A1C               3 year                28 months                  8 years
 Upgrade to Journeyman                         AMN               10 months
 (5-skill level)                               A1C
 - Minimum 12 months OJT                       SrA               3 years               28 months                  8 years
 - Minimum 9 months OJT for retrainees
 - Complete appropriate CDC if and when
 available
 ALS                                           Trainer
 -Must be a SrA with 48 months time in         - qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained
 service or be a SSgt Selectee                 - Must attend the Air Force Training Course
 - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
 SSgt Sew-on (Active Duty only)
 Upgrade to Craftsman                          SSgt              7.5 years             3 years                    15 Years
 (7-skill level)
 - Minimum rank of SSgt
 - 12 months OJT
 - 6 months OJT for retrainees
 - Completed appropriate CDC if/when
 available
                                               Certifier
                                               - Possess at least a SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian equivalent
                                               - Attend the formal Air Force Training Course
                                               - Be a person other than the trainer, except for AFSCs, duty positions, units, and/or work
                                               centers with specialized training standardization and certification requirements
 NCOA                                          TSgt               12.5 years            5 years                      20 years
 - Must be TSgt or TSgt selectee
 - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for   MSgt              16 years              8 years                    24 years
 MSgt sew-on (Active Duty only)
 SNCOA                                         SMSgt             19.2 years            11 years                   26 years
 - Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee
 - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
 CMSgt sew-on (active duty only)
 - A percentage of top non-selects (for
 promotion to E-8) MSgts attend the SNCOA
 each year
 Upgrade to Superintendent (9-skill level)     CMSgt             21.5 years            14 Years                   30 Years
 - Minimum rank of SMSgt
 - CMSgt Leadership Course (CLC)
 - PME Commandant

                                                                  (Table 6-1)




                                                                        17
Enlisted Career Pyramid
    A 30 Year Span




        (Figure 6-1)



            18
                                                                 Grade Requirements
      Education and Training Requirements            Rank          Special Duty

      Upgrade to Journeyman                                        • Hyperbaric Technician
      (5-Skill Level)
                                                                   • Allergy/ Immunization Technician
      • Certified in all STS Core Tasks                            • Aeromedical Evacuation Technician (AET)
      • Minimum NREMT certification                                • Instructor Duty
      • QTPs for assigned position                 A1C/SrA         • Neurodiagnostic Technologist (NDT)
      • Complete all duty position training                        • Military Entrance Processing Station (MEPS)
      requirements                                                 • IDMT (SrA Only)
                                                                   • Squadron Medical Element (SME) (SrA Only)

      Upgrade to Craftsman                                         • IDMT
      (7-Skill Level)                                              • Flight and Operational Medic Technician
      • Minimum NREMT certification                                • Squadron Medical Element (SME)
      • QTPs for assigned position
      • Complete all duty position training
                                                                   • Medical Development NCO
      requirements
                                                     SSgt          • Special Operations Command Medic
                                                                   • Hyperbaric
                                                                   • Neurodiagnostic
                                                                   • Aeromedical Consultation Service
                                                                   • Technical Training Instructor
      Flight/Squadron/Division Superintendent        MSgt          • International Health Specialist (IHS)
      Senior 4N0
       SNCOA                                        SMSgt          • Squadron Superintendent

      Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)     CMSgt          • MAJCOM level assignments
      • NREMT certification                                        • MAJCOM Functional Manager

      Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) 4N000)           CMSgt          • Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM)
      • CLC                                                        • Medical Group Superintendent

                                                  (Table 6-2)
6.1. Aerospace Medical Service Specialties 4N0X1X career progression/broadening (Tables 6-1/6-2/6-3 and
Figure 6-1). NOTE: These charts show the MINIMUM rank eligible for each training and career
progression/broadening area.




                                                            19
6.2. The 4N0X1C career path, located below, outlines when training is required for each skill level and function
within this specialty.


        4N0X1C CAREER PATH
        Career Progression Path                                         Rank   Education
        -Completion of In-Residence IDMT course -Assignment to:                -ACLS
        Squadron Medical Element OS Short Tour Operational                     -ALS
        IDMT position Security Forces Group (SFG) Contingency           SrA    -BLS Instructor
        Response Group (CRG) MTF UTC IDMT position                             -SABC Instructor
        MMU/MAS USAF Survival School CE (RED HORSE)
        Warrior Week (BMT/OTS)


        -Completion of in-residence IDMT course -Assignment to:                -Upgrade to 4N071C --4N071 CDC
        MTF UTC IDMT position Squadron Medical Element OS                      -Initial/Sustainment Training Certification current
        Short Tour Operational IDMT position AFSOC, SFG, CRG           SSgt    -Duty Position Qualification
        MMU/MAS, ANG Training Sites USAF Survival School                       -IDMT QTPs current
        CE (RED HORSE) Warrior Week (BMT/OTS)                                  - ACLS Provider required
                                                                               - BLS Instructor required
                                                                               - SABC Instructor required
        -Completion of in-residence IDMT course -Assignment to:                -Noncommissioned Office Academy (NCOA)
        Remote Site OS Short/Long Tour Operational IDMT                        -ACLS Provider required
        NCOIC position AFSOC, SFG, CRG RED HORSE                       TSgt    -BLS Instructor required
        BMT/OTS IDMT position Survival School IDMT Course                      -SABC Instructor required
        Instructor Duty MTF UTC IDMT Position MTF
        Clinic/Section NCOIC position IDMT Program Coordinator




        -Assignment to: MAJCOM IDMT Functional Advisor MTF                     -SNCOA by correspondence/in residence
        Flight/Squadron NCOIC Or Division Superintendent MTF                   -ACLS Provider required
        4N0 Functional Advisor IDMT Program Coordinator                MSgt    -BLS Instructor required
        Remote Site NCOIC Operational Unit NCOIC AFSOC,                        -SABC Instructor required
        SFG, CRG RED HORSE IDMT Course Instructor Duty


        -4N091 w/SEI 496 -Assignment to: IDMT Course                           -SNCOA in residence
        Supervisor Squadron/Division Superintendent MTF 4N0
        Functional Advisor ACC/USAFE MAJCOM IDMT                      SMSgt
        Functional Advisor -AF IDMT Consultant by CFM
        appointment




                                                                  Table 6-3




                                                                      20
SECTION C – SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in broad, general
terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The specific
task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.
2. Specialty Qualification.
2.1. Skill Level Training.
2.1.1. Specialty Qualification.
2.1.1.1. Knowledge. The following knowledge is mandatory for award of AFSC indicated:
2.1.1.1.1. 4N0X1/X. Medical terminology, anatomy and physiology; nursing theory, techniques and
procedures; nursing assessment; team nursing; patient needs; emergency medical treatment to include
cardiopulmonary resuscitation; aseptic technique; medical ethics and legal aspects; prescribed
drugs/immunizations and their administration; population health concepts; operating and maintaining therapeutic
equipment; transportation of sick and wounded; risk management; military hygiene and sanitation; fundamentals
of primary care management (PCM); preventive medicine and counseling techniques; physical examinations and
standards, contingency operations, disaster preparedness and chemical warfare; flight physiology fundamentals;
maintenance of the human weapon system; and operational readiness of the war fighter.
2.1.1.1.2. 4N0X1B. Neurological patient examination, treatment, and diagnostic procedures; -operation and
user maintenance of electroencephalographic, electromyographic, and other neurodiagnostic equipment.
2.1.1.1.3. 4N0X1C. Medical, dental, and emergency treatment; disorders; advanced cardiac and disease
management; epidemiology; and entomology. Pharmacy, laboratory, bioenvironmental, immunizations, public
health, medical logistics, and medical administration.

2.1.1.1.4. 4N0X1F. Physical examinations procedures, aircrew medical waivers, medical standards, and duty
limiting conditions.

2.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school is required with courses in general
science, biology, psychology, and chemistry is desirable.
2.1.1.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for the award of the AFSC indicated:
2.1.1.3.1. 4N031. Completion of Basic Medical Technicians Corpsman Program (BMTCP).
2.1.1.3.2. 4N031B. Completion of a basic neurology technician course, current NREMT certification is
mandatory.
2.1.1.3.3. 4N051C. Completion of IDMT Program and certification at the host medical treatment facility is
mandatory.
2.1.1.3.4. 4N051F. Completion of flight and operational medicine technician course.
2.1.1.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for the award of AFSC indicated:
2.1.1.4.1. 4N051/4N051X. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4N031/31X. Experience performing
functions such as care and treatment of patients, operating and maintaining therapeutic equipment.
2.1.1.4.2. 4N071. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4N051/51X. Also experience performing or
supervising functions such as nursing activities; care and treatment of patients; operating and maintaining
therapeutic equipment; and conducting paraprofessional portions of physical examinations.
2.1.1.4.3. 4N091. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4N071/71X. Experience managing functions
such as medical and related patient care and administrative activities.

                                                        21
2.1.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:
2.1.1.5.1. For entry into this specialty.
2.1.1.5.1.1. Must possess a valid state driver’s license to operate government motor vehicles in accordance with
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
2.1.1.5.1.2. See attachment 4 of the (AFECD) for additional other entry requirements.
2.1.1.5.2. For entry into AFSC 4N0X1B, the following are mandatory:
2.1.1.5.2.1. Prior qualification in and possession of PAFSC 4N051/71.
2.1.1.5.2.2. For award and retention of the AFSC 4N051B, certification from the American Board of
Registration of Electroencephalographic and Evoked Potential Technologists (ABRET) as a Registered
Electroencephalographic Technologist (R. EEG T.) or other professionally recognized national certification or
registration examination within the NDT field must be accomplished within one year of graduation from the NDT
Program. After initial certification, continued certification is mandatory while assigned duties as a NDT.
2.1.1.5.3. For entry into AFSC 4N0X1C, the following are mandatory:
2.1.1.5.3.1. Prior qualification in and possession of PAFSC 4N051/71 and 3 years experience practicing as a
4N0XX with 2 years of direct patient care.
2.1.1.5.3.2. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards.
2.1.1.5.3.3. For entry, award, and retention of the C shred-out, Immunization Technician back-up (IBT)
qualification is mandatory.
2.1.1.5.4. For entry, award, and retention of AFSCs 4N0X1/X1X, no record of emotional instability according
to the provisions of AFI 48-123.
2.1.1.5.5. For entry, award, and retention of the C shred-out, the following are mandatory:
2.1.1.5.5.1. Immunization Back-up Technician (IBT) qualification.
2.1.1.5.5.2. Qualification to perform duties at an isolated location according to the provisions of AFI 48-123.
2.1.1.5.6. For award and retention of AFSCs 4N031/4N051/51X/71X, certification from the NREMT as an
emergency medical technician is mandatory. After initial certification, continued certification is mandatory.
NOTE: Individuals who possess a NRP certification exceed the NREMT requirement and are not required to
also maintain a NREMT certification.
2.1.1.5.6.1. For award and retention of these AFSCs, must maintain an Air Force Network License according to
AFI 33-115, V2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.
2.1.1.5.7. Medical Modeling and Simulation (MM&S) Training.
2.1.1.5.7.1. In the absence of actual patient encounters, MM&S is an important tool to develop and maintain
technical skills, enhance communication and refine critical thinking skills as a component of the overall
Education and Training program. The AFMMAST program has been designated as the Center of Excellence for
MM&S and has oversight of all MM&S training throughout the AFMS. The AFMMAST Central Program
Office (CPO) works with SMEs to align E&T requirements and objectives within standardized MM&S scenarios
to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of MM&S across the education and training continuum.
2.1.1.5.7.2. MM&S is a broad concept that encompasses a variety of mediums including human patient
simulators, part/virtual task trainers, virtual medical games, and standardized patients. To address the specific
training need of a learning objective, the optimal MM&S tool(s) must be selected. AFMMAST experts assist
and mentor AFMS personnel in selecting the best MM&S tool or blending of tools to meet their needs within any
budgetary, equipment, or infrastructure constraints they may have.



                                                       22
2.1.1.5.7.3. To be qualified to conduct MM&S training activities, individuals will complete basic simulation
operations training per AFMMAST Program requirements located on the AFMMAST Portal at:
https://secure.afmmast.mil.
2.2. Training Sources/Resources. Completion of the BMTCP Phase I course, which is to include NREMT
certification training and testing, at JBSA, Fort Sam Houston, TX, and the Aerospace Medical Service Apprentice
Phase II course satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified in para 2.1.1.1.1., for award of the
3-skill level.
2.3. Implementation. After 3-skill level graduation, job qualification training starts when individuals are
assigned to their first duty positions. Thereafter, it is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties they are
not qualified to perform. QTPs will be used concurrently to obtain necessary duty position qualifications.
QTPs are Air Force publications that have been developed and are mandatory for use during upgrade/qualification
training when available for a duty position, program, or piece of equipment.

SECTION D – RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

There are currently no resource constraints.

SECTION E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE

There are currently no transitional training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                        23
PART II
SECTION A – SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD (STS) FOR AFSC 4N0X1/X AND APPLICABLE
SHREDOUTS/SEIS
1. Implementation. This STS will be used for Aerospace Medical Service Apprentice technical training
provided by AETC for classes beginning 18 August 2014. Additionally, the 4N051A CDC will be available 2
February 2015; 4N051B CDC will be available 15 June 2015; and the 4N071 CDC will be available 03 September
2015.
2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201 this STS:
2.1. Lists, in column 1, the most common tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen
to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. TRs in the source summary are commercial publications or other
service publications that are essential for OJT and mission accomplishment and are referenced by title throughout
the STS. The unit OJT section will consolidate the requirements for the unit they support and order publications
through the hospital/clinic library activity. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies, by “5” or “7” skill level,
specialty-wide training requirements.
2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge training
requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician qualifications, if available.
Task certification must show a certification or completed date.
2.3. Shows in Column 4, formal training, correspondence course, and QTP requirements. It also shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task and knowledge and the
career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. For a list of QTP volume numbers and titles, refer to
Part II Section C.
2.4. Proficiency Code Key/Qualitative Requirements precede the specific STS listings and contains the
proficiency code key used to indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.
2.5. The Part II STS Listing is used to document task when placed in the ETR. Refer to AFI 36-2201for
further guidance on documentation, transcribing, decertification, and recertification.
2.6. The STS Listings are used as a performance standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the “Go” level.
“Go” means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local demands for accuracy,
timeliness, and correct use of procedures. (“Go” level equates to “3c” in the STS proficiency code key).
2.7. The STS Listing is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests are developed at the USAF Airman Advancement Division, by
senior non-commissioned officers with extensive practical experience in their career field. The tests sample
knowledge of STS subject-matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for
promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the Enlisted Promotion
References and Requirements Catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military
Personnel Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard.
3. NREMT Core Tasks. The CFM has approved that the following list of core tasks do not have to be
trained/certified for upgrade training status unless the tasks are required by duty position. Upon completion of
initial NREMT certification through the 4N0X1 BMTCP course, these items are trained/certified. This list
should be referred to when establishing a unit MTL.




                                                        24
4. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning quality of AETC training.
Reference specific STS paragraphs and address correspondence regarding changes to 937 TRG/TGE, 2931
Harney, JBSA, Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) is available for the
supervisor's convenience to identify graduates who may have received over or under training on task/knowledge
items listed in this specialty training standard. For quick responses to problems, call our CSIL, DSN 420-1080
(commercial 210-808-1080) or email us at usaf.jbsa.937-trg.list.937-trg-tge@mail.mil any time day or night.


Attachments (13)

1. Qualitative requirements
2. STS: Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1)
3. STS: Squadron Medical Element
4. STS: Allergy / Immunization (SEI 453)
5. STS: Hemodialysis (SEI 486)
6. STS: Critical Care Technician (SEI 487)
7. STS: Hyperbaric (SEI 490)
8. STS: Aeromedical Evacuation (SEI 494)
9. STS: Neurodiagnostic Technologist (4N0X1B)
10. STS: Independent Duty Medical Technician (4N0X1C)
11. STS: Special Operations Command Medic (SEI 455)
12. STS: Flight and Operational Medical Technician (4N0X1F) (SEI 470)
13. STS: National Registry Paramedic (SEI 456)


BY ORDER OF THE SCRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                                             THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                                      Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                      Surgeon General




                                                     25
                                                                 ATTACHMENT 1
                                                                  STS 4N0X1/X

Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                         Initials (Written)           SSAN (Last 4)


                                         Printed Name Of Trainer, Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                  N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                     N/I


                                                QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                   Scale      Definition: The individual
                   Value
                              IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the
                      1       task.)
    Task
                              IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.)
Performance           2
   Levels                     IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
                      3
                              IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do
                      4       the task.)
                              KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.)
                       a
   Task                       KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task.)
Knowledge             b
  Levels               c
                              KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is
                              needed.)
                              KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                      d
                              KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
                      A
 Subject                      KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.)
Knowledge             B
  Levels              C
                              KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)

                              KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.)
                      D
Explanations
A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Examples: a and 1a, b and 2b, or c and 3c)

A subject knowledge scale value is always used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

/x This mark is used with a proficiency code in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.




                                                                              26
                                                                              ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                    Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
NOTE 1: Task and knowledge items identified with an “*” are trained during the resident wartime course.
NOTE 2: Training References (TRs) listed in STS and in bibliography are approved for use in formal course, QTP, and MTP development.
NOTE 3: Tasks designated with a (5) in Column 2 are core tasks (at all skill levels) identified by the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) and MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM).
NOTE 4: Tasks designated with a (7) in Column 2 are core tasks (at all skill levels) identified by the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) and MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM).
NOTE 5: Tasks designated with a (^) in Column 3E have been identified by the AFCFM and MFM as tasks that must have a certifying official for task completion when required for duty position.
NOTE 6: Columns 4 (A1, A2, B, C and D) specify the level of training provided by the 3-skill level resident and Phase II courses, the 5-skill level Career Development Courses (CDC), the 7-skill
(CDC), and the QTPs respectively.
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        2. Core Tasks     3. Certification For OJT                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                              A          B                                                       A                B           C             D
                                                                                               C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                            Trng       Trng                                                3 Skill Level        5 Skill     7 Skill     QTP Volume
                                                                                                Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                            Start     Complete                                                                  Level       Level         Number
                                                                                                                                       Phase I       Phase II    CDC         CDC
                                                                                                                                       Course        Course
2. AEROSPACE MEDICAL SERVICE
2.1. Doctrine, Mission, & Duties
*2.1.1. Medical doctrine
                                                                7                                                                         A             -         B            -               -
TR: AFDD 4-02
2.1.2. USAF Aerospace Medical Service Mission

*2.1.2.1. AEF aspects                                                                                                                                             B            -
TR: AEF Website
2.1.2.2. Medical Readiness
TR: AFI 41-106
2.1.2.2.1. Unit readiness responsibilities                                                                                                -             -          -           -               -
2.1.2.2.2.Individual Readiness Response                                                                                                                 -
2.1.2.3. Air Reserve Component roles and                                                                                                  -             -          -          B                -
relationships
2.1.3. AFSC Scope of Practice/Responsibilities
TR: AFI 36-2101
*2.1.3.1. 4N031                                                                                                                                                   B
*2.1.3.2. 4N051
2.1.3.3. 4N071                                                                                                                            A                       B
2.1.3.4. 4N091                                                                                                                            A                       B
2.1.3.5. 4N000                                                                                                                                                    B
2.2 INTERPERSONAL RELATIONS
TR: Mosby Nursing Skills, AFI 41-211
2.2.1. AFMS Customer Service
*2.2.1.1. Customer needs and expectations                                                                                                 A             -         B           C                -
2.2.1.2. Customer Service Basics
*2.2.1.2.1. Perform Listening techniques                                                                                                  1a
*2.2.1.2.2. Perform Face-to-face contact (non-verbal                                                                                      1a
communication)
*2.2.1.2.3. Perform telephone etiquette                                                                                                   1a
2.2.1.2.4. Perform electronic communication                                                                                               1a                      b
(Netiquette)
*2.2.1.2.5. Patient Advocacy Program                                                                                                                                          C
*2.2.1.2.6. Conflict Resolution                                                                                                           A             -         B           -                -
2.2.2. Customer service surveys                                                                                                           -             -         B           -                -
2.2.3. Professional Standards And Ethics
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.2.3.1. Standards of conduct for patient care                                                                                           A             -         B            -               -
*2.2.3.2. Patient rights and responsibilities                                                                                             A             -         B            -               -
*2.2.3.3. Death and dying                                                                                                                 A             -         B            -               -
2.2.4. Legal Aspects Of Patient Care
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.2.4.1. Health Insurance Portability Accountability                                                                                     A             -         B            -               -
Act (HIPAA)
2.2.4.2. Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data                                                                                         A             -          -          B                -
Bank (HIPDB)
*2.2.4.3. Privacy act                                                                                                                     A             -         B            -               -
*2.2.4.4. Intentional torts                                                                                                               A             -         B            -               -
*2.2.4.5. Consent for treatment                                                                                                           A             -         B            -               -
*2.2.4.6. Standards of care                                                                                                               A             -         B            -               -
2.2.4.7. Advanced Directives
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.2.4.7.1. “Do Not Resuscitate” (DNR) orders                                                                                             A             -         B            -               -
*2.2.4.7.2. Living wills                                                                                                                  A             -         B            -               -
*2.2.4.7.3. Durable power of attorney                                                                                                     A             -         B            -               -
2.2.5. Professional Relationships
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.2.5.1. Staff                                                                                                                           A             -         B            -               -
*2.2.5.2. Patient                                                                                                                         A             -         B            -               -




                                                                                                27
                                                                                ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                          A         B                                                             A             B         C         D
                                                                                            C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                                                                                                                                   QTP
                                                                        Trng      Trng                                                 3 Skill Level          5 Skill   7 Skill   Volume
                                                                                              Initials   Initials   Initials
                                                                        Start    Complete                                                                     Level     Level     Number
                                                                                                                                Phase I        Phase II        CDC       CDC
                                                                                                                                Course          Course
*2.2.5.3. Stress management                                                                                                       A               -             B          -        -
*2.2.5.4. Patient sensitivity                                                                                                     A               -             B          -        -
*2.2.5.5. Emotional support for patient and                                                                                                                                -        -
                                                                                                                                   A                  -         B
significant others
*2.2.5.6. Diversity (cultural, spiritual, religious)                                                                           A           -         B                     -        -
2.3. MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM (MHS)
*2.3.1. Components of MHS                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                               A           -         -                    B
TR: AFI 41-201
*2.3.2. Health care benefits options                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                               A           -         -                    B
TR: AFI 41-201
2.3.3. Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH)
TR: AFI 44-171, Patient Centered Medical Home, AFMOA PCMH Orientation Checklist, Military Health System Patient Centered Medical Home Guide, June 2011
(http://www.tricare.mil/tma/ocmo/download/MHSPCMHGuide.pdf)
2.3.3.1. PCMH Definition                                                                                                            A             -                 B      -        -
2.3.3.2. Purpose and Core Principles                                                                                                A             -                 B      -        -
2.3.3.3. MHS Quadruple Aim Goals                                                                                                    A             -                 B      -        -
2.3.4. Team Member Roles/Responsibilities
2.3.4.1. Health Care Provider                                                                                                       A             -                 B      -        -
2.3.4.2. Nurse                                                                                                                      A             -                 B      -        -
2.3.4.3. Medical Technician                                                                                                         B             -                 B      -        -
2.3.4.4. Admin support                                                                                                              A             -                 B      -        -
2.3.5. Team Huddles
2.3.5.1. Weekly                                                                                                                     A             -                 B      -        -
2.3.5.2. Daily                                                                                                                      A             -                 B      -        -
2.3.5.3. MHPI Performance Measures                                                                                                  A             -                 -      -        -
2.3.6. Information Systems
TR: AFI 41-210, AFI 41-211
*2.3.6.1. Overview of information systems                                                                                                  A                        B      -
2.3.7. Utilize Information Systems
TR: AFI 41-210, AFI 41-211, AFI 44-102; KX
2.3.7.1. Inpatient electronic health record                                                                                                A              -         B     C         -
2.3.7.2. Components of Composite Health Care
                                                                                                                                          2b              -         B     C         -
System (CHCS)
2.3.7.3. Armed Forces Health Longitudinal
                                                                                                                                          2b              -         B     C         -
Technology Application (AHLTA)
2.3.7.3.1        Tri-Service Workflow Forms                                                                                               2b              -         b      -        -
2.3.7.3.2        Outpatient Coding                                                                                                        1a              -         B      -        -
2.3.7.4. USAF Aeromedical Services Information
Management System (ASIMS)                                                                                                                  a                        b
TR: AFJI 48-110; AFI 44-102
2.3.7.4.1        Individual Medical Readiness                                                                                              A              -         B     C         -
2.3.7.4.2        Immunizations                                                                                                             A              -         B     C         -
2.3.7.4.3        Quarters                                                                                                                  A              -         B     C         -
2.3.7.5. CarePoint                                                                                                                         A              -         B     -         -
2.3.7.6. Knowledge Exchange (Kx)                                                                                                           A              -         -     -         -
2.3.8. Utilize Deployable Medical Record System                                                                                            -              -         -     -         -
2.3.9. Utilize TRANSCOM Command and Control                                                                                                -              -         -     -         -
Evacuation System (TRAC2ES)
2.4. Understand Population Health Management Principles (Continuum of Care)
TR: A Guide to Population Health; Medical Management Guide
2.4.1. Case Management                                                                                                                     A              -         B      -        -
2.4.2. Disease Management                                                                                                                  B              -         B      -        -
2.4.3. Utilization Management                                                                                                              A              -         B      -        -
2.4.4. Referral Management                                                                                                                 A              -         B      -        -
2.4.5. Health Care Integrator (HCI)                                                                                                        A              -         B      -        -
2.4.6. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
2.4.6.1.Defense Medical Human Resource System
internet (DMHRSi)                                                                                                                          -              -         A      -        -
TR: AFI 41-102
2.4.7. Manpower Considerations and Documents
TR: AFI 36-2110; 65-601, Vol 1
2.4.7.1. Unit Manpower Document (UMD)                      7                                                                               -              -         A     B         -
2.4.7.2. Authorization change request
                                                           7                                                                               -              -         A     B         -
(ACR)/authorization change notice (ACN)
2.4.7.3. Unit personnel management roster (UPMR)
                                                           7                                                                               -              -         A     B         -
2.4.7.4. Manning assistance                                                                                                                -              -         A     B         -




                                                                                        28
                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                  Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                         A        B                                                     A                B          C            D
                                                                                        C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                       Trng     Trng                                              3 Skill Level        5 Skill    7 Skill    QTP Volume
                                                                                         Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                       Start   Complete                                                                Level      Level        Number
                                                                                                                           Phase I          Phase II   CDC         CDC
                                                                                                                           Course            Course
2.4.7.5. Budget development and management                                                                                    -                -          -          -           -
2.4.8. Equipment/Supply
TR: AFI 33-112
*2.4.8.1. Perform daily inventory and equipment
checks (e.g. crash carts, ambulance, treatment room          5                                                                1a              2b         c           -           -
etc)
2.4.8.2. Accountability and responsibility                                                                                    -                -         B          -            -
2.4.8.2.1. Report of survey                                                                                                   -                -         A          B            -
2.4.8.3. Patient transport items                                                                                              -                -         A          -            -
2.4.9. Records
2.4.9.1. Activity issue/turn-in                                                                                               -                -         A           -           -
2.4.9.2. Backorder report                                                                                                     -                -         A           -           -
2.4.9.3. Custody receipt locator list (CRLL)                                                                                  -                -         A           -           -
actions/custodial report listing
2.4.9.4. Equipment authorization list (allowance
                                                                                                                                               -          -         B            -
standard)
2.4.9.5. Inventory                                                                                                                             -          -         -            -
2.4.9.6. Ordering and turning-in                                                                                                               -          -         -            -
2.4.9.7. Equipment replacement plan                                                                                                            -          -         B            -
2.4.9.8. Defense Medical Logistics Supply System
                                                                                                                                               -          -          -           -
(DMLSS)
2.4.9.9. Maintenance
2.4.9.9.1. Operator responsibilities                                                                                          -                -         A          B            -
2.4.9.9.2. Reports                                                                                                            -                -         A          B            -
2.4.9.9.3. Repair/calibration requests                                                                                        -                -         A          B            -
2.4.9.9.4. Tag In/Tag Out Process                                                                                             A                    -     B           -               -
2.5. SAFETY/RESOURCE PROTECTION
*2.5.1. Specific
COMSEC/COMPUSEC/OPSEC/EMSEC                                                                                                   A                -          -          -
Vulnerabilities
*2.5.2. Principles of general safety
                                                                                                                              B                -          -          -           -
TR: AFIs 90-802, 90-902
2.5.3. Workplace hazards                                                                                                      -                -          -          -           -
*2.5.4. Hazard/accident/incident reporting
                                                                                                                              A                -          -          -           -
TR: AFIs 91-202, 91-204
*2.5.5. Hazard Communication (HAZCOM)
                                                                                                                              A                -          -          -           -
TR: AFI 90-821
*2.5.6. Material safety data sheets (MSDS)
                                                            7                                                                 A                -         A          B            -
TR: AFIs 32-7086, 90-821, 91-202
*2.5.7. Air Force Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (FWA)
Prevention and Detection                                                                                                      A                -          -          -           -
TR: AFI 90-301
2.5.8. AF Form 55                                           -                                                                 A                    -          -          -
2.6. SUPERVISION
2.6.1.Personnel Requirements                                7
2.6.1.1. Daily Operations                                                                                                     -                -         A          B            -
2.6.1.2. Set priorities                                                                                                       -                -         A          B            -
2.6.1.3. Develop duty schedule                              7                                                                 -                -         A          B            -
2.6.1.4. Work Center Orientation                                                                                                                         A          B
2.6.2. Position descriptions                                                                                                  -                -         A                       -
2.6.3. Performance standards                                                                                                  -                -         A                       -
2.7. TRAINING
TR AFI 44-119, AFI 36-2201
2.7.1. Enlisted Specialty Training
TR: CFETP 4N0X1X
*2.7.1.1. Career Field Education and Training Plan
(CFETP), Part I & Part II STS (scope of practice)          5/7                                                                A                -         B           -           -
overview
2.7.2. Maintain electronic training record
                                                           5 /7                                                               -                -         2b         c            -
documentation
2.7.3. Identify Personnel Training Needs                                                                                      -                -         a          b            -
2.7.4. Develop and present in-service training                                                                                -                -         a          b            -
2.7.5. Develop unit training program
2.7.5.1. Master Training Plan                              5/7                                                                -                -         b          c            -
2.7.5.2. Master Task List                                  5/7                                                                -                -         b          c            -
2.7.5.3. Duty Task List                                    5/7                                                                -                -         b          c            -
2.7.5.4. Evaluate personnel in upgrade training            5/7                                                                -                -         b          c            -
2.7.6. Evaluate training effectiveness                     5/7                                                                -                -         b          c            -




                                                                                          29
                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                   Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                       2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                            A         B                                                      A                B         C           D
                                                                                            C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                          Trng      Trng                                               3 Skill Level        5 Skill   7 Skill   QTP Volume
                                                                                             Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                          Start    Complete                                                                 Level     Level       Number
                                                                                                                                   Phase I       Phase II    CDC       CDC
                                                                                                                                   Course        Course
2.7.6.1. Task knowledge                                  5/7                                                                          -             -         b         c           -
2.7.6.2. Task proficiency                                5/7                                                                          -             -         b         c           -
2.7.7. Recommend personnel for Training                  5/7                                                                          -             -         b         c           -
2.7.7.1. Retraining opportunities                        5/7                                                                          -             -         b         c           -
2.7.7.2. Formal training                                 5/7                                                                          -             -         b         c           -
2.7.8. Components of Electronic Training Record                                                                                                               b         c
2.7.8.1. Profile I                                                                                                                                            b         c
2.7.8.2. 623 I                                                                                                                                                b         c
2.7.8.3. 623II                                                                                                                                                b         c
2.7.8.4.623III                                                                                                                                                b         c
2.7.8.5. 623a                                                                                                                                                 b         c
2.7.8.6. AF Form 797                                                                                                                                          b         c
2.7.8.7. AF Form 1098                                                                                                                                         b         c
2.7.8.8. AF Form 803                                                                                                                                          b         c
2.7.8.9. JQS                                                                                                                                                  b         c
2.7.8.10. Enroll                                                                                                                                              b         c
2.7.8.11. User Files                                                                                                                                          b         c
2.7.8.12. Career knowledge upgrade                                                                                                     -            -         A         B           -
TR: CFETP 4N0X1X
2.7.8.13. Job proficiency upgrade                                                                                                      -            -         A         B           -
TR: CFETP 4N0X1X
2.7.8.14. Sustainment training programs                                                                                                -            -         B         -           -
2.7.8.15. Job inventory survey                                                                                                         -            -         A         B           -
2.7.8.16. Graduate assessment survey (GAS)               7                                                                             -            -         A         B           -
2.7.9 Progression In 4N0X1 Career Paths
TR AFECD; CFETP 4N0X1X
2.7.9.1. Career Opportunities
*2.7.9.1.1. Special duty                                                                                                              A             -         B          -          -
*2.7.9.1.2. Special experience identifier (SEI)                                                                                       A             -         B          -          -
*2.7.9.1.3. AFSC shreds                                                                                                               A             -         B          -          -
2.8. Human Anatomy and Physiology
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills for Nursing; Fundamentals of Nursing; Structure & Function of the Body
2.8.1. Human Anatomy
*2.8.1.1. Descriptive terms and topographic anatomy
                                                                                                                                      A             -         B          -          -
*2.8.1.2. Major organs and systems                                                                                                   A             -          B          -          -
2.8.2. Human Physiology
*2.8.2.1. Fluid, electrolyte, and acid-base balance                                                                                  A             -          B          -          -
*2.8.2.2. Functions and adaptations of cells and                                                                                     A             -          B          -          -
tissues
*2.8.2.3. Thermal regulation                                                                                                         A             -          B          -          -
*2.8.2.4. Metabolism/energy production                                                                                               A             -          B          -          -
*2.8.2.5. Oxygenation and circulation                                                                                                A             -          B          -          -
*2.8.2.6. Nutrition and elimination                                                                                                  A             -          B          -          -
*2.8.2.7. Activity and rest                                                                                                          A             -          B          -          -
*2.8.2.8. Protection and regulation                                                                                                  A             -          B          -          -
*2.8.2.9. Reproduction                                                                                                               A             -          B          -          -
*2.8.2.10. Human growth, development, and the
                                                                                                                                     A             -          B          -          -
aging process
2.9. FACTORS THAT INFLUENCE HEALTH
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills for Nursing; Fundamentals of Nursing; Structure & Function of the Body; Current Edition; Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.9.1. Basic human needs theory                                                                                                     A             -          B          -          -
*2.9.2. Personal hygiene                                                                                                             A             -          B          -          -
*2.9.3. Environmental/community health                                                                                               A             -          B          -          -
*2.9.4. Nutrition and exercise                                                                                                       A             -          B          -          -
*2.9.5. Psychological adjustments/mental health                                                                                      A             -          B          -          -
*2.9.6. Substance abuse                                                                                                              A             -          B          -          -
*2.9.7. Body defenses and healing processes                                                                                          A             -          B          -          -
2.10. CALCULATIONS
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing; Fundamentals of Nursing; Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.10.1. Metric System                                                                                                               A             -          B          -          -
2.10.2. Medical Calculations
*2.10.2.1. Perform metric conversions                       5                                                                        1a            -          b         c           -
*2.10.2.2. Calculate weights and measures                   5                                                                        1a            -          b         c           -




                                                                                               30
                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                   Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                      2. Core Tasks     3. Certification For OJT                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                            A         B                                                    A                B         C           D
                                                                                            C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                          Trng      Trng                                              3 Skill Level       5 Skill   7 Skill   QTP Volume
                                                                                             Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                          Start    Complete                                                               Level     Level       Number
                                                                                                                                   Phase I     Phase II    CDC       CDC
                                                                                                                                   Course       Course
2.11. DOCUMENTATION
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing; Fundamentals of Nursing; Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.11.1. Medical terminology and abbreviations                                                                                        A             -       B          -          -
*2.11.2. Use medical terms in reporting and
                                                             5/7                                                                     1a           2b         -         -          -
recording
*2.11.3. Legal aspects                                       5/7                                                                      A             -       B          -          -
*2.11.4. Document nursing assessments                        5/7                                                                     1a           2b        c          -          -
*2.11.5. Document interventions/procedures                   5/7                                                                     1a           2b        c          -          -
*2.11.6. Document patient education                          5/7                                                                     1a           2b        c          -          -
2.12. PATIENT CARE SKILLS
2.12.1. General                                                                                                                       A                     B
2.12.2. Infection Control                                                                                                             A                     B
2.12.3. Principles
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced                                                                                        A                     B
Skills; Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.12.3.1. Body substance isolation                                                                                                   A             -       B          -          -
*2.12.3.2. Asepsis                                                                                                                    A             -       B          -          -
*2.12.3.3. Sterility of supplies/equipment                                                                                            A             -       B          -          -
2.12.4. Communicable Disease Management
*2.12.4.1. Infectious hazards reporting procedures                                                                                    A             -       B          -          -
*2.12.4.2. Infectious processes; modes of
                                                                                                                                      A             -       B          -          -
transmission
2.12.5. Procedures
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills; Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing; Mosby's Nursing Skills & AFI 44-108
*2.12.5.1. Perform hand-washing                              5/7                                                                     3c             -        -         -          -
*2.12.5.2. Don/doff sterile gloves                           5/7                                                                     2b           3c         -         -          -
*2.12.5.3. Don/doff non-sterile gloves                       5/7                                                                     2b             -        -         -          -
*2.12.5.4. Don/doff sterile gown                                                                                                     2b           3c         -         -          -
*2.12.5.5. Don/doff non-sterile gown                                                                                                 2b             -        -         -          -
*2.12.5.6. Set-up/maintain sterile field                                                                                             2b           3c         -         -          -
*2.12.5.7. Prepare supplies/equipment for
                                                                                                                                     1a           2b        c          -          -
sterilization
*2.12.5.8. Perform sterilization procedures                                                                                           a             -       b          -          1
*2.12.5.9. Perform disinfection procedures                                                                                            a             -       b          -          1
*2.12.5.10. Dispose of contaminated materials                5/7                                                                     1a           2b        c          -          -
*2.12.5.11. Clean patient unit                                                                                                        b             -       c          -          -
*2.12.5.12 Perform isolation precautions                                                                                             2b             -       c          -          -
2.12.5.13. Perform housekeeping duties                                                                                                -             -       -          -          -
2.12.6. Measure And Record Patient Parameters
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills; Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing; Fundamentals of Nursing; Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.12.6.1. Record Temperature                                 5                                                                      2b           3c         -         -          -
*2.12.6.2. Assess Pulse rate                                  5                                                                      2b           3c         -         -          -
*2.12.6.3. Assess Respiratory rate                            5                                                                      2b           3c         -         -          -
 2.12.6.4. Assess Skin Characteristics                        5                                                                      2b           3c
2.12.6.5. Blood pressure
*2.12.6.5.1. Perform Auscultation                             5                                                                      2b           3c        -          -          -
*2.12.6.5.2 Perform Palpation                                 5                                                                      2b           3c        -          -          -
*2.12.6.6. Assess Pain scale                                  5                                                                      2b           3c        -          -          -
*2.12.6.7. Perform Height (standing) and weight               5                                                                      2b           3c        -          -          -
*2.12.6.8. Perform Orthostatic vital signs                    5                                                                       b             -       c          -          1
*2.12.6.9. Perform Neuro checks                               5                                                                      2b             -       c          -          -
2.12.6.10. Perform Pulse oximetry/oxygen saturation                                                                                  2b             -       c          -          1
*2.12.6.11. Perform Intake and output                                                                                                1a           2b        c          -          1
2.12.6.12. Record Body/abdominal girth                                                                                                -             -       b          -          -
2.12.6.13. Test Spirometry                                                                                                            -             -       b          -          -
*2.12.6.14. Perform 12-lead EKG                               5                                                                      1a           2b        c          -          1
*2.12.6.15. Perform Peak expiratory flow                                                                                             2b             -       -          -          -
*2.12.6.16. Perform Visual acuity test                        5                                                                      2b             -       c          -          -
2.12.7. Assist With Specimen Collection
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills, Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing
2.12.7.1. Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF)                                                                                                 -             -       b          -          -
2.12.7.2. Cytology                                                                                                                    -             -       b          -          -
2.12.7.3. Prepare requisitions for tests/procedures                                                                                   -             -       -          -          -
2.12.7.3.1. Collect And Label
2.12.7.3.1.1. Emesis                                                                                                                  -             -       b          -          -
2.12.7.3.1.2. Urine                                                                                                                   -             -       b          -          -
2.12.7.3.1.3. Sputum                                                                                                                  -             -       b          -          -
2.12.7.3.1.4. Stool                                                                                                                   -             -       b          -          -

                                                                                               31
                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                   Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                      2. Core Tasks     3. Certification For OJT                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                            A         B                                                      A                B          C           D
                                                                                            C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                          Trng      Trng                                               3 Skill Level        5 Skill    7 Skill   QTP Volume
                                                                                             Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                          Start    Complete                                                                 Level      Level       Number
                                                                                                                                   Phase I       Phase II    CDC        CDC
                                                                                                                                   Course        Course
2.12.7.3.1.5. Drainage                                                                                                                -             -          b           -         -
2.12.7.3.2. Perform and Label
*2.12.7.3.2.1. Venipuncture                                     5                                                                     1a           2b          c           -         1
*2.12.7.3.2.2. Throat Swab                                      5                                                                     2b            -          c           -         -
 2.12.7.3.2.3. Strain urine for calculi                                                                                                -            -          b           -         -
 2.12.7.3.2.4. Urine Reagent Stick                                                                                                     -            -          c           -         1
*2.12.7.3.2.5. Capillary Stick                                  5                                                                     2b            -          c           -         1
*2.12.7.3.2.6. Use blood glucose meter                                                                                                2b            -          c           -         1
 2.12.7.3.2.7. Pregnancy Test                                                                                                          -            -          -           -         -
2.12.8. Medications and Fluid Therapy Under Supervision of Nurse or Credentialed Provider
2.12.8.1. Principles
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing; Fundamentals of Nursing; Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.12.8.1.1. Safety factors in administration of
                                                                                                                                      A             -         B            -         -
medications and fluid therapy
*2.12.8.1.2. Pharmacological abbreviations                                                                                            A             -         B            -         -
 2.12.8.1.3. Medication Reconciliation                                                                                                A             -         A           B          -
2.12.8.1.4. Approved Drug List (ADL)                                                                                                  A             -         A           B          -
2.12.8.2. Medication Actions, Side Effects, and Guidelines For Administration
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing; Fundamentals of Nursing; Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.12.8.2.1. Anesthetic--local                                                                                                        A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.2. Antacids/Antiflatulents                                                                                                  A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.3. Anticholinergics                                                                                                          A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.4. Anticoagulants                                                                                                           A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.5. Antidiabetics                                                                                                            A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.6. Antidiarrheals                                                                                                           A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.7. Antidysrhythmics                                                                                                         A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.8. Antiemetics                                                                                                              A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.9. Antiinfectives                                                                                                           A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.10. Antifungals                                                                                                              A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.11. Antihistamines                                                                                                           A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.12. Antihypertensives                                                                                                       A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.13. Antimigraine Agents                                                                                                      A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.14. Antineoplastics                                                                                                          A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.15. Hormone Contraceptives                                                                                                   A
*2.12.8.2.16. Antipsychotics                                                                                                          A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.17. Antitoxins and Antivenins                                                                                                A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.18. Antitussives/expectorants                                                                                                A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.19. Antivirals                                                                                                               A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.20. Benzodiazepines                                                                                                          A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.21. Bronchodilators                                                                                                          A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.22. Cholinergics                                                                                                             A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.23. Corticosteroids                                                                                                          A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.24. Diuretics                                                                                                                A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.25. Immune Serums                                                                                                            A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.26. Laxatives                                                                                                               A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.27. Nonopioid Analgesics                                                                                                    A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.28. Nonsteriod antiinflammatories                                                                                           A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.29. Opioid Analgesics                                                                                                        A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.30. Opioid antagonists                                                                                                       A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.31. Salicylates                                                                                                              A             -         B            -         -
*2.12.8.2.32. Vaccines and Toxoids                                                                                                    A             -         B            -         -
2.12.8.2.33. Vitamins                                                                                                                  -            -         B            -         -
2.12.8.3. Prepare And Administer
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills; Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing; Fundamentals of Nursing; Mosby's Nursing Skills, Mosby's Drug Reference
2.12.8.3.1. Patients Rights in Medication
                                                               5/7
Administration
2.12.8.3.1.1. Document medication administration
and fluid therapy                                              5 /7                                                                   1a           2b          c           -         -
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing
*2.12.8.3.1.2. Oral medication                                 5 /7                                                                    b            -          c           -         1
*2.12.8.3.1.3. Subcutaneous injection                          5 /7                                                                   2b            -          c           -         1
*2.12.8.3.1.4. Intramuscular injection                         5 /7                                                                   2b                       c           -         1
2.12.8.3.1.5. Intradermal injection                                                                                                    -            -          c           -         1
*2.12.8.3.1.6. Agents in prefilled or Tubex syringes           5 /7                                                                    b            -          c           -         1
2.12.8.3.1.7. Autoinjector                                                                                                            2b            -          c           -         1
*2.12.8.3.1.8. Rectal suppository                                                                                                      b            -          c           -         1
2.12.8.3.1.9. Vaginal suppository                                                                                                      -            -          c           -         1
*2.12.8.3.1.10. Ophthalmic ointments and drops                                                                                        2b            -          c           -         1

                                                                                               32
                                                                             ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                   Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                           A        B                                                     A                B         C            D
                                                                                          C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                         Trng     Trng                                              3 Skill Level        5 Skill   7 Skill    QTP Volume
                                                                                           Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                         Start   Complete                                                                Level     Level        Number
                                                                                                                              Phase I         Phase II    CDC       CDC
                                                                                                                              Course          Course
*2.12.8.3.1.11. Optic drops                                                                                                    2b                -         c          -           1
*2.12.8.3.1.12. Topical medication                                                                                             2b                -         c          -           1
*2.12.8.3.1.13. Via updraft nebulizer                                                                                          2b                -         c          -           1
*2.12.8.3.1.14. Via prescribed inhaler                                                                                         2b                -         c          -           3
2.12.8.3.1.15. Nasal medication                                                                                                2b                -         c          -           3
2.12.8.3.1.16. Intravenous medication
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills          7                                                                -                -         c          -           -

*2.12.8.3.1.17. Sublingual medication
                                                                                                                                2b               -         c          -           1
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing
2.12.8.4. Administer Scheduled Medications (Schedule II-V)
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills
2.12.8.4.1. Schedule II
2.12.8.4.1.1. Oral administration                                                                                               -                -          -         -           -
(5/7/9 levels only) Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.1.2. Intramuscular                                                                                                     -                -          -         -           -
(5/7/9 levels only) Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.1.3. Intravenous                                                                                                       -                -          -         -           -
(7/9 levels only) Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.2. Schedule III
2.12.8.4.2.1. Oral administration                                                                                               -                -          -         -           -
(5/7/9 levels only) Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.2.2. Intramuscular                                                                                                     -                -          -         -           -
(5/7/9 levels only) Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.2.3. Intravenous                                                                                                       -                -          -         -           -
(7/9 levels only) Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.3. Schedule IV
2.12.8.4.3.1. Oral administration                                                                                               -                -          -         -           -
(5/7/9 levels only) Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.3.2. Intramuscular                                                                                                     -                -          -         -           -
(5/7/9 levels only) Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.3.3. Intravenous                                                                                                       -                -          -         -           -
(7/9 levels only) Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.4. Schedule V
2.12.8.4.4.1. Oral administration (5/7/9 levels only)                                                                           -                -          -         -           -
Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.4.2. Intramuscular (5/7/9 levels only)                                                                                 -                -          -         -           -
Intraosseous (7 & 9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.4.3. Intravenous (7 & 9 levels only)                                                                                   -                -          -         -           -
Intraosseous (7/9 levels only)
2.12.8.4.5. Intravenous Fluid and Blood Administration
2.12.8.4.5.1. Blood Administration
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills
2.12.8.4.5.1.1. Obtain blood/blood products from
blood bank                                                                                                                      -                -         a          -           1
TR: Local Procedures
2.12.8.4.5.1.2. Set-up blood warmer and pump
                                                                                                                                -                -                    -           1
TR: User Manual
2.12.8.4.5.1.3.Monitor Patient for adverse reactions
                                                                                                                                -                -         a          -           1
during blood transfusion
2.12.8.5. Parenteral Fluid Therapy
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.12.8.5.1. Set-up and Insert                                                                                                  1a              2b         c          -           1
2.12.8.5.1.1 Intravenous fluid administration                                                                                   2b               -         c              -       1
2.12.8.5.1.2. Intraosseous fluid administration                                                                                  -               -         -          -           1
2.12.8.5.1.3 - Saline lock                                                                                                       -               -         -          -           1
2.12.8.5.2. Regulate and monitor                                                                                                                                                  1
2.12.8.5.2.1. - Intravenous fluid administration                                                                                2b                   -     c          -           1
2.12.8.5.2.2. Intraosseous fluid administration                                                                                  -               -         -          -           1
2.12.8.5.2.3. Saline lock                                                                                                        -               -         -          -           1
*2.12.8.5.2.4. Apply armboard or restraints to secure
                                                                                                                                2b               -         c          -           1
infusion
*2.12.8.5.2.5. Set-up and regulate infusion
                                                                                                                                1a              2b         c          -           1
pumps/controllers
2.12.8.5.2.6. Calculate drip rates                                                                                              2b                   -     c          -           -
*2.12.8.5.2.7. Set-up and regulate infusion pressure
                                                                                                                                1a               b         c          -           1
bag

                                                                                            33
                                                                              ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                    Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                       2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                             A         B                                                       A               B          C             D
                                                                                             C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                           Trng      Trng                                                3 Skill Level       5 Skill    7 Skill    QTP Volume
                                                                                              Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                           Start    Complete                                                                 Level      Level        Number
                                                                                                                                      Phase I     Phase II   CDC         CDC
                                                                                                                                      Course       Course
*2.12.8.5.2.8. Change intravenous fluid bags/bottles
                                                                                                                                        1a           2b        c           -           1

2.12.8.5.3. Discontinue                                                                                                                                                                1
2.12.8.5.3.1 - Intravenous fluid administration                                                                                         2b            -        c               -       1
2.12.8.5.3.2 - Intraosseous fluid administration                                                                                       -               -            -          -           -
2.12.8.5.3.3 - Saline lock                                                                                                             -               -            -          -           -
2.12.10. Patient Transfer Techniques
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills
*2.12.9.1. Principles of proper body mechanics                                                                                        A              -         B           -           -
2.12.9.2. Mechanical aids for lifting and moving                                                                                      A              -         B           -           -
2.12.10. Assist To And From
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing; Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.12.10.1. Bed                                                                                                                       2b            2b         c           -           -
*2.12.10.2. Wheelchair/chair                                                                                                          2b            2b         c           -           -
*2.12.10.3. Bathtub/shower seat                                                                                                       2b             -         c           -           -
2.12.10.4 Commode                                                                                                                     2b             -         c           -           -
*2.12.10.5. Automobile                                                                                                                 -             -
2.12.10.6. Ambulance                                                                                                                  2b            2b                     -           -
2.12.10.7. Stair Chair                                                                                                                 a
*2.12.10.8. Stretcher/gurney                                                                                                          2b             -         c           -           -
*2.12.10.9. Examining table                                                                                                           1a            2b         c           -           -
*2.12.10.10. Ambulate patients                                                                                                        2b             -         -           -           -
*2.12.10.11. Move patients on/off elevators in                                                                                         a            2b         c           -           -
wheelchair/stretcher/beds
2.12.11. Prepare Patient Transfer With
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing
*2.12.11.1. Monitoring system                                                                                                          a            2b         c           -           -
*2.12.11.2. Oxygen                                                                                                                     a            2b         c           -           -
*2.12.11.3. Drainage system                                                                                                            a            2b         c           -           -
*2.12.11.4. Intravenous lines                                                                                                          a            2b         c           -           -
*2.12.11.5. Immobilization devices                                                                                                     a            b          c           -           -
2.13. Medical Examinations/Special Procedures
2.13.1. Assemble Supplies and Equipment/Assist those authorized/licensed to perform the task
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills; Fundamental Concepts & Skills for Nursing; Lippincott Nursing Manual, Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.1.1. Basic physical examination                         5                                                                       1a            2b         c           -            -
*2.13.1.2. Chest tube insertion/water seal drainage           5                                                                        a             -         c           -            2
*2.13.1.3. Pelvic examination                                                                                                          a             -         b           -            -
2.13.1.4 Paracentesis/thoracentesis                                                                                                    -             -         b           -            -
2.13.1.5. Lumbar puncture                                                                                                              -             -         b           -            -
*2.13.1.6. Biopsy                                                                                                                      a             -         b           -            -
2.13.1.7. Tympanometry                                                                                                                 -             -         b           -            1
2.13.1.8. Incentive spirometer                                                                                                        A              -         b           -            -
2.13.1.9. Sitz bath                                                                                                                    -             -         -           -            -
*2.13.1.10. Minor surgery                                                                                                              a             -         c           -            -
2.13.1.11. Sigmoidoscopy, proctoscopy, and                                                                                             -             -         b           -           14
colonoscopy
2.13.1.12. Bronchoscopy                                                                                                                -             -         b           -           -
2.13.1.13. Radial arterial blood gas (ABG) sample                                                                                      -             -         -           -           2
percutaneously
2.13.1.14. Endotracheal intubation                                                                                                     -             -          -          -           -
2.13.2. Perform
TR: Bates Guide to Physical Exam and History; Fundamental Concepts & Skills for Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
2.13.2.1. Diabetic foot exam                                                                                                           a            1a         b          -            -
2.13.2.2. Endotracheal care                                                                                                            -             -         b          c            -
2.13.2.3. Tracheostomy care                                                                                                            -             -         b          c            -
*2.13.2.4. Contact lens removal                                                                                                        a             -         b          -            -
*2.13.2.5. Fluorescein eye stain                                                                                                       a             -         b          -            -
*2.13.2.6. Ear irrigation                                     5                                                                        a             -         b          -            -
*2.13.2.7. Eye irrigation                                     5                                                                        a             -         b          -            3
2.13.2.8. Laryngeal mask airway (LMA) insertion                                                                                                                b
2.13.2.9. Continuous positive airway pressure                                                                                                                  b
(CPAP)
2.13.2.10. Tepid/sponge-bath for fever                                                                                                 -             -          -          -           -
2.13.3. Wound Management
TR: Fundamental Concepts &Skills for Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
2.13.3.1. Principles Of
*2.13.3.1.1. Soft tissue injuries                                                                                                     A              -         B           -           -
*2.13.3.1.2. Complicated wounds                                                                                                       A              -         B           -           -

                                                                                                 34
                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                  Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks     3. Certification For OJT                             Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                           A        B                                                  A                B         C           D
                                                                                          C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                         Trng     Trng                                           3 Skill Level        5 Skill   7 Skill   QTP Volume
                                                                                           Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                         Start   Complete                                                             Level     Level       Number
                                                                                                                             Phase I       Phase II    CDC       CDC
                                                                                                                             Course        Course
2.13.3.2. Perform
*2.13.3.2.1. Wound evaluation                                    5                                                               b            -         c          -          -
*2.13.3.2.2. Burns evaluation                                    5                                                               b            -         c          -          -
*2.13.3.2.3. Wound irrigation/scrub                              5                                                              1a           2b         c          -          -
*2.13.3.2.4. Wound debridement                                                                                                   a            -         b          -          -
*2.13.3.2.5. Burn debridement                                                                                                    a            -         b          -          -
2.13.3.2.6. Subungual hematoma evacuation                                                                                        -            -         b          -          -
2.13.3.2.7. Vacuum drainage system management                                                                                    -            -         b          -          -
2.13.3.3. Administer Local Anesthetic Agents
2.13.3.3.1. Topical                                                                                                             -             -         b         c           2
2.13.3.3.2. Local infiltration                                                                                                  -             -         b         c           2
2.13.3.3.3. Digital block                                                                                                       -             -         b         c           2
2.13.3.4. Wound Closure and Care
2.13.3.4.1. Apply Sterile tape strips                                                                                            -            -         b         c           -
2.13.3.4.2. Perform Stapling                                                                                                     -            -         c         -           2
2.13.3.4.3. Perform Suturing                                     5                                                               -            -         c         -           2
2.13.3.4.4. Apply Surgical glue                                                                                                  -            -         c                     2
*2.13.3.4.5. Suture and staple removal                                                                                          2b            -         c          -          2
2.13.3.5 Sterile Dressings Application and Change
*2.13.3.5.1. Apply Dry                                           5                                                              1a           2b         c          -          -
*2.13.3.5.2. Apply Wet-to-dry                                                                                                    a            -         b          -          -
*2.13.3.5.3. Apply Wet-to-wet                                                                                                    a            -         b          -          -
2.13.3.5.4. Apply Wound Packing                                                                                                  a            -         b          -          -
*2.13.3.5.5. Apply Heat and cold treatments                      5                                                              2b            -         c          -          -
2.13.3.6. Considerations for Patients with Special Limitations and Problems
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills for Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.3.6.1. Hazards of immobility                                                                                              A             -         B         -           -
*2.13.3.6.2. Visually impaired                                                                                                  A             -         B         -           -
*2.13.3.6.3. Hearing impaired                                                                                                   A             -         B         -           -
*2.13.3.6.4. Diabetic                                                                                                           A             -         B         C           -
*2.13.3.6.5. Paralyzed                                                                                                          A             -         B         -           -
*2.13.3.6.6. Elderly                                                                                                            A             -         B         -           -
*2.13.3.6.7. Infant/child/adolescent                                                                                            A             -         B         -           -
*2.13.3.6.8. Mental/Behavioral Health                                                                                           A             -         B         -           -
2.13.3.6.9. Post Traumatic Stress (PTS)                                                                                         A                       B
*2.13.3.6.10. Cancer                                                                                                            A             -         B          -          -
*2.13.3.6.11. Seizure                                                                                                           A             -         B          -          -
*2.13.3.6.12. Amputees                                                                                                          A             -         B          -          -
*2.13.3.6.13. Unconscious                                                                                                       A             -         B          -          -
*2.13.3.6.14. Immunodeficiency disorder                                                                                         A             -         B          -          -
*2.13.3.6.15. Dialysis                                                                                                          A             -         B          -          -
*2.13.3.6.16. Abusive/self-abusive                                                                                              A             -         B          -          -
*2.13.3.6.17. Electrosensitive                                                                                                  A             -         B          -          -
TR: AFI 41-203
2.13.3.6.18. Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI)                                                                                       A                       B
2.13.3.6.19. Non-english speaking                                                                                               A                       B
*2.13.3.6.20. Terminally ill                                                                                                    A             -         B          -          -
*2.13.3.6.21. Abused/neglected                                                                                                  A             -         B          -          -
*2.13.3.6.22. Burns                                                                                                             A             -         B          -          -
2.13.4. Pre- And Post-operative Care
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing, Mosby's Skills
2.13.4.1. Assist With
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.4.1.1. Checklists and instructions                                                                                        b             -         c          -          -
 2.13.4.1.2. Universal Protocol Concept                                                                                         A                       B
*2.13.4.1.3. Anesthesia-related safety measures                                                                                 b             -         c          -          -
*2.13.4.1.4. Post op exercises                                                                                                  b             -         c          -          -
2.13.4.2. Perform
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.4.2.1. Shaves/scrubs                                                                                                      b             -         c          -          -
*2.13.4.2.2. Reporting complication                                                                                             b             -         c          -          -
2.13.4.2.3. Post -operative procedures per Local                                                                                -             -         -          -          -
Protocol
2.13.4.2.4. Elastic stocking application                                                                                        -             -         c          -          -
*2.13.4.2.5. Pneumatic compression device                                                                                       b             -         c          -          -
application/removal




                                                                                             35
                                                                               ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                     Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                       2. Core Tasks      3. Certification For OJT                             Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                              A        B                                                     A                B         C           D
                                                                                             C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                            Trng     Trng                                              3 Skill Level        5 Skill   7 Skill   QTP Volume
                                                                                              Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                            Start   Complete                                                                Level     Level       Number
                                                                                                                                Phase I          Phase II    CDC       CDC
                                                                                                                                Course            Course
2.13.5. Orthopedic Procedures
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing; Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced
*2.13.5.1. Teach and assist patients ambulating with
                                                              5                                                                   2b                -         c          -          -
walkers, canes, and crutches
2.13.5.2. Apply simple splint                                 5                                                                    -                -         b          -          -
2.13.5.3. Apply/Remove Simple Cast
2.13.5.3.1. Short arm                                                                                                              -                -         b          -          3
2.13.5.3.2. Long arm                                                                                                               -                -         b          -          3
2.13.5.3.3. Short leg                                                                                                              -                -         b          -          3
2.13.5.3.4. Long leg                                                                                                               -                -         b          -          3
2.13.5.3.5. Thumb spica                                                                                                            -                -         b          -          3
2.13.5.3.6. Bivalve cast                                                                                                           -                -         b          -          3
2.13.5.3.7. Trim/petal cast                                                                                                        -                -         b          -          3
*2.13.5.3.8. Apply elastic wraps                                                                                                  2b                -         c          -          -
*2.13.5.3.9. Measure for crutches                             5                                                                   2b                -         c          -          -
2.13.5.3.10. Apply/remove orthopedic braces                                                                                        -                -         -          -          -
2.13.6. Nutrition and Elimination Procedures
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills; Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.6.1. Patient dietary considerations                                                                                          A                -         B          -          -
2.13.7. Nasogastric Tube
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills; Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.7.1. Insert                                                                                                                1a/2b              -         c          -          2
*2.13.7.2. Irrigate                                                                                                               2b                -         c          -          2
*2.13.7.3. Remove                                                                                                                1a/2b              -         c          -          2
2.13.7.4. Administer cleansing enema                                                                                               -                -         c          -          -
2.13.7.5. Perform colostomy care                                                                                                   -                -         c          -          -
2.13.7.6. Remove fecal impaction                                                                                                   -                -         -          -          -
2.13.8. Apply/Insert and Remove
2.13.8.1. External condom catheter                                                                                                 a                -         c          -          -
*2.13.8.2. Foley catheter                                                                                                         2b                -         c          -          2
*2.13.8.3. Straight catheter                                                                                                       b                -         c          -          -
 2.13.8.4. Pediatric Urine collection bag                                                                                          a                -         c          -          2
*2.13.8.5. Maintain closed urinary drainage system                                                                                2b                -         c          -          2
2.13.9. Cardiovascular Procedures
*2.13.9.1. Obtain and Maintain Basic Life Support
Healthcare Provider certification                             5                                                                    3c               -          -         -          -
TR: American Heart Association
2.13.9.2. Perform cardiac defibrillation under the
supervision of a credentialed healthcare provider                                                                                  -                -          -         -          -
TR: Brady’s Emergency Care
2.13.9.3. Assist with central venous/arterial
                                                                                                                                   -                -         a          -          -
monitoring set-up
2.13.9.4. Assist with arterial line insertion                                                                                      -                -         a          -          2
2.13.9.5. Assist with central venous line insertion                                                                                -                -         a          -          2
2.13.10. Set-up
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills; Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.10.1. Cardiac monitor/defibrillator                     5                                                                    1a              2b         c          -         1/3
*2.13.10.2. External pacemaker                                                                                                     1a              2b         c          -         1/3
*2.13.10.3. Recognize/Report Normal Sinus
                                                              5                                                                    1a               -         b         c           -
Rhythms
2.13.10.4. Recognize/Report Ventricular                                                                                            1a                         b         c
Tachycardia
2.13.10.5. Recognize/Report Ventricular Fibrillation
                                                                                                                                   1a                   -     b         c
2.13.11. Patient Restraint Procedures
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills, Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.11.1. Apply protective/restraining devices                                                                                   b                -         c          -          -
*2.13.11.2. Use manual restraints/holds                                                                                            b                -         c          -          -




                                                                                                36
                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                  Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                            A        B                                                  A                B         C           D
                                                                                           C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                          Trng     Trng                                           3 Skill Level        5 Skill   7 Skill   QTP Volume
                                                                                            Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                          Start   Complete                                                             Level     Level       Number
                                                                                                                              Phase I       Phase II    CDC       CDC
                                                                                                                              Course        Course
2.13.12. Oxygen Therapy
TR: A Basic Worktext Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.12.1. Assemble/interchange fixed and portable                                                                              3c            -          -         -          -
                                                          5
oxygen delivery system
2.13.12.2. International markings                                                                                                 -            -         -          -
2.13.12.3. Apply nasal cannula                            5                                                                      3c            -         -          -          -
*2.13.12.4. Apply simple face mask                        5                                                                      3c            -         -          -          -
2.13.12.5. Apply nonrebreather mask                       5                                                                      3c            -         -          -          -
*2.13.12.6. Apply Venturi mask                                                                                                    a            -         b          -          -
2.13.12.7. Assemble and apply Aviator’s positive                                                                                               -         -          -          -
                                                                                                                                 -
pressure mask
2.13.13. Inpatient
2.13.13.1. Patient Instruction or Guidance
2.13.13.1.1. Unit orientation and policy                                                                                         -             -          -         -          -
2.13.13.1.2. Fire/disaster evacuation plan                                                                                       -             -          -         -          -
2.13.13.1.3. Maintain inpatient medical records                                                                                  -             -          -         -          -
2.13.13.2. Planning Patient Care
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing; Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.13.2.1. Assist with patient admission,
                                                                                                                                 1a           2b         c          -          -
discharge, and transfer
*2.13.13.2.2. Assist with patient care planning                                                                                  1a           2b         c          -          -
*2.13.13.2.3. Identify problems and special needs                                                                                1a           2b         c          -          -
*2.13.13.2.4. Instruct patients regarding tests and
                                                                                                                                 a             1a        b         c           -
procedures
2.13.13.2.5. Prepare patient for aeromedical
                                                                                                                                 -             -          -         -          -
evacuation
2.13.13.3. Perform post mortem care                                                                                              a             -         b          -          -
 2.13.14. Patient Safety
TR: AHRQ and Partnership for Patients Implementation Guidelines
2.13.14.1. National Patient Safety Goals
                                                                                                                                 -             -          -         -
TR: AHRQ
 2.13.14.1.1. TeamStepps                                                                                                         -             -          -         -
2.13.15. Strategies for Preventing Harms
TR: Partnership for Patients
2.13.15.1. Falls                                                                                                                 -             -          -         -
2.13.15.2. Pressure Ulcers                                                                                                       -             -          -         -
2.13.15.3. Hospital Acquired Infections                                                                                          -             -          -         -
2.13.15.4. Bedside Handoffs                                                                                                      -             -          -         -
2.13.15.5. Comfort Rounds (4ps, pain, proximity,
                                                                                                                                 -             -          -         -
position, potty)
2.13.15.6. Patient Safety Reporting (PSR)                                                                                        -             -          -         -
2.13.15.6.1. Near Miss                                                                                                           -             -          -         -
2.13.15.6.2. Harms                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
2.13.15.6.3. Sentinel Events                                                                                                     -             -          -         -
2.13.15.7. Risk Cause Analysis (RCA) 7 level                                                                                     -             -          -         -
2.13.16. Patient Comfort And Hygiene
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.16.1. Assist patient                                                                                                       1a           2b          -         -          -
2.13.16.2. Place patient on bedpan, urinal and
fracture bedpan                                                                                                                  -             -         b          -          -
2.13.16.3. Make Beds
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing
*2.13.16.3.1. Unoccupied                                                                                                        2b             -          -         -          -
*2.13.16.3.2. Occupied                                                                                                          2b             -          -         -          -
*2.13.16.3.3. Surgical                                                                                                          2b             -          -         -          -
*2.13.16.3.4. Aeromedical evacuation litter                                                                                     2b             -          -         -          -
*2.13.16.3.5. Give bed bath
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced                                                                                  2b             -          -         -          -
Skills; Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing
2.13.16.4. Oral Hygiene
2.13.16.4.1. Provide denture care                                                                                                a             -          -         -          -
2.13.16.4.2. Assist with brushing teeth, oral swabs,                                                                             a             -          -         -          -
chapstick, and flossing




                                                                                            37
                                                                               ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                     Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                          2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                             A        B                                                  A                B         C           D
                                                                                            C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                           Trng     Trng                                           3 Skill Level        5 Skill   7 Skill   QTP Volume
                                                                                             Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                           Start   Complete                                                             Level     Level       Number
                                                                                                                               Phase I       Phase II    CDC       CDC
                                                                                                                               Course        Course
2.13.17. Provide Skin Care
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills; Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
*2.13.17.1. Back massage                                                                                                          b             -         -          -          -
*2.13.17.2. Perineal hygiene                                                                                                      b             -         -          -          -
*2.13.17.3. Shampoo                                                                                                               b             -         c          -          -
*2.13.17.4. Shave                                                                                                                 b             -         c          -          -
*2.13.17.5. Foot care                                                                                                             b             -         c          -          -
*2.13.17.6. Turn and position patient                                                                                            2b             -         -          -          -
2.13.17.7. Assist with patient feeding                                                                                            -             -         b          -          -
*2.13.17.8. Prepare patient for meal                                                                                              b             -         -          -          -
*2.13.17.9. Pass water/appropriate fluids                                                                                         b             -         -          -          -
2.13.17.10. Assist/monitor with tube feeding                                                                                      -             -         b          -          -
2.13.17.11. Administer retention enema                                                                                            -             -         b          -          -
2.13.17.12. Assist with continuous/intermittent                                                                                   -             -         b          -          -
bladder irrigations
2.13.18. Pulmonary Procedures
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills; Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing, Mosby's Nursing Skills
2.13.18.1. Perform chest percussion and postural                                                                                  -             -         b          -          -
drainage
2.13.18.2. Hood                                                                                                                   -             -         b          -          -
2.13.18.3. Croup tent                                                                                                             -             -         b          -          -
*2.13.18.4. Humidified oxygen                                                                                                     a             -         b          -          -
2.13.19. Musculoskeletal
TR: Clinical Nursing Skills: Basic to Advanced Skills; Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing
2.13.19.1. Set-up skeletal traction                                                                                               -             -          -         -          -
2.13.19.2. Check/correct traction alignments/weights                                                                              -             -          -         -          -
TR: Lippincott Nursing Manual

2.13.19.3. Apply skin traction                                                                                                    -             -         a          -          -
2.13.19.4. Care for external fixation device and pin                                                                              -             -         c          -          -
2.13.19.5. Position patient with head halter/cervical                                                                             -             -         c          -          -
tongs
2.13.19.6. Instruct patients regarding isometric or                                                                               -             -         c          -          -
active exercises
2.13.19.7. Perform passive or passive assisted                                                                                    -             -         c          -          -
exercise
2.13.19.8. Use Continuous passive motion (CPM)                                                                                    -             -          -         -          -
device
TR: AWHONN Perinatal Nursing (Simpson and
Creehan); AWHONN Core Curriculum for Maternal-
Newborn Nursing
2.13.20. Obstetrical Patient Care
2.13.20.1. Antepartum/Intrapartum care
 2.13.20.1.1. Obtain fetal heart tones with doppler                                                                               -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.1.2. Operate/troubleshoot Electronic Fetal
                                                                                                                                  -             -          -         -
Monitor (EFM) equipment safely
 2.13.20.1.2.1.Eenter patient information into system
                                                                                                                                  -             -          -         -
2.13.20.1.2.2. Assemble and apply external fetal
                                                                                                                                  -             -          -         -
monitor
 2.13.20.1.2.3. Assist with application of fetal scalp
                                                                                                                                  -             -          -         -
electrode
 2.13.20.1.2.4. Assist with application of intrauterine
                                                                                                                                  -             -          -         -
pressure catheter
 2.13.20.1.3. Perform Non-Stress Test (NST)                                                                                       -             -          -         -
2.13.20.1.3.1. Report findings to nurse/provider                                                                                  -             -          -         -
2.13.20.1.4. Assist with medication checks                                                                                        -             -          -         -
2.13.20.1.4.1. Assess/record deep tendon reflexes                                                                                 -             -          -         -
2.13.20.1.4.2. Monitor/record intake and output                                                                                   -             -          -         -
2.13.20.1.4.3. Assess/report edema                                                                                                -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.1.5. Recognize normal fetal monitor tracing
                                                                                                                                  -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.1.5.1. Report abnormal tracings to
                                                                                                                                  -             -          -         -
nurse/provider
2.13.20.1.6. Assist with patient positioning during
                                                                                                                                  -             -          -         -
epidural/intrathecal placement
2.13.20.1.7. Assist with fetal resuscitation measures                                                                             -             -          -         -
2.13.20.1.7.1. Reposition patient                                                                                                 -             -          -         -

                                                                                              38
                                                                          ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                      2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                             Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                          A        B                                                  A                B         C           D
                                                                                         C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                        Trng     Trng                                           3 Skill Level        5 Skill   7 Skill   QTP Volume
                                                                                          Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                        Start   Complete                                                             Level     Level       Number
                                                                                                                            Phase I       Phase II   CDC        CDC
                                                                                                                            Course        Course
2.13.20.1.7.2. Apply oxygen                                                                                                    -             -          -         -
2.13.20.1.8. Assist with Normal Vaginal Delivery
2.13.20.1.8.1. Assemble equipment/set-up delivery                                                                              -             -          -         -
2.13.20.1.8.2. Assemble equipment/set-up infant
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
warmer
2.13.20.1.9. Assist with Operative Vaginal Delivery

2.13.20.1.9.1. Gather equipment/set up                                                                                         -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.1.9.1.1. Forceps                                                                                                      -             -          -         -
2.13.20.1.9.1.2. Hand-held vacuum                                                                                              -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.1.10. Assist with Routine Cesarean Section
Delivery
 2.13.20.1.10.1. Admission Paperwork                                                                                           -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.1.10.2. Pre-operative teaching                                                                                        -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.1.10.3. Notify appropriate resource
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
personnel
 2.13.20.1.11. Assist with Emergent Delivery
 2.13.20.1.11.1. Precipitous Vaginal Delivery                                                                                  -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.1.11.2. Unplanned/Emergent Cesarean
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
Section Delivery
 2.13.20.1.11..2.1. Operating Room Familiarization
 2.13.20.1.12. Obtain/label specimens cord blood for
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
Ph and gases
 2.13.20.1.12.1. Cord blood for Ph and gases                                                                                   -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.1.12.2. Placenta for pathology                                                                                        -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.1.13. Delivery room cleaning                                                                                          -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2. Postpartum
 2.13.20.2.1. Perform/record fungal
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
examination/massage
 2.13.20.2.2. Perform perineal care                                                                                            -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.2.1. Assist with sitz bath                                                                                          -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.2.2. Assess for hemorrhoids                                                                                         -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.2.3. Provide comfort measures                                                                                       -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.3. Observe/record lochia flow for color,
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
amount, consistency
 2.13.20.2.3.1. report abnormal findings                                                                                       -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.4. Monitor/Document intake/output                                                                                   -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.5. Inspect wound for intactness/drainage;
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
report abnormal findings
 2.13.20.2.5.1. Episiotomy                                                                                                     -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.5.2. Perineal laceration                                                                                            -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.5.3. Surgical incision                                                                                              -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.6. Perform post-operative teaching                                                                                  -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.7. Obtain/assist patient with application of
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
abdominal binder
 2.13.20.2.8. Administer required immunizations                                                                                -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.9. Identify Rh negative mother's                                                                                    -             -          -         -
 2.13.20.2.9.1 Administer Rhogam per order                                                                                     -             -          -         -
2.13.20.3. Maternal/Fetal loss
2.13.20.3.1. Familiarize and assist with bereavement
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
program
2.13.21. Newborn Care
TR: American Academy of Pediatrics NRP; AWHONN Core Curriculum for Maternal-Newborn Nursing
 2.13.21.1. Obtain/Maintain Neonatal Resuscitation                                                                             -             -          -         -
Program (NRP)
 2.13.21.2. Assist with resuscitation of newborn                                                                               -             -          -         -
2.13.21.3. Assess APGAR                                                                                                        -             -          -         -          -
TR: American Academy of Pediatrics NRP
2.13.21.4. Prevent hypothermia                                                                                                 -             -          -         -          -
2.13.21.5. Perform suction                                                                                                     -             -          -         -          -
2.13.21.6. Perform identification procedures                                                                                   -             -          -         -          -
2.13.21.7. Obtain body measurements                                                                                            -             -          -         -          -
2.13.21.8. Bathe infant                                                                                                        -             -          -         -          -
2.13.21.9. Administer hemorrhagic/ophthalmic                                                                                   -             -          -         -          -
prophylaxis
2.13.21.10. Perform umbilical cord                                                                                             -             -          -         -          -
2.13.21.11. Operate incubators (fixed/transport)/                                                                              -             -          -         -          -
infant care center

                                                                                            39
                                                                          ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                         A         B                                                  A                B         C            D
                                                                                         C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                       Trng      Trng                                           3 Skill Level        5 Skill   7 Skill    QTP Volume
                                                                                          Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                       Start    Complete                                                             Level     Level        Number
                                                                                                                            Phase I       Phase II   CDC        CDC
                                                                                                                            Course        Course
2.13.21.12. Set-up and monitor oxygen levels on                                                                                -             -          -         -           -
newborn
2.13.21.13. Set-up/monitor phototherapy                                                                                        -             -          -         -           -
2.13.21.14. Perform/record transcutaneous
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
bilirubinometry
2.13.21.15. Obtain serum bilirubin specimen                                                                                    -             -          -         -
2.13.21.16. Obtain Newborn Screening per protocol
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -

2.13.21.17. Perform newborn hearing screening                                                                                  -             -          -         -
2.13.21.18. Education parents/assist with newborn
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
care
2.13.21.19. Education parents on newborn nutrition
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
requirements
2.13.21.19.1. Breastfeeding                                                                                                    -             -          -         -
2.13.21.19.2. Bottlefeeding                                                                                                    -             -          -         -
2.13.21.19.3. Assess/document infant intake and
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -
output
2.13.21.20. Set-up/assist with circumcision                                                                                    -             -          -         -           -
2.13.21.21. Perform infant circumcision                                                                                        -             -          -         -           -
2.13.22. Prepare and Document Report of Care and Treatment
2.13.22.1. SF 600                                                                                                              1a           2b         c          -           -
2.13.22.2. SOAPP Note
TR: Fundamental Concepts and Skills For Nursing;            5                                                                  1a           2b         c          -           -
Mosby's Nursing Skills
2.13.22.3. Support Staff Protocol                                                                                              1a           2b         c          -           -
2.13.22.4. SF 507, Continuation Sheet                                                                                          1a           2b         c          -           -
2.13.22.5. AF Form 469                                                                                                         1a           2b         c              -
2.13.22.6. AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial
Report to include 31/37/81 report and assignment
                                                            5                                                                  1a           2b         c          -           -
Limitation Code C
TR: AFI 48-123
*2.13.22.7. SF 558, Emergency and Treatment
Record                                                                                                                         1a           2b         c          -           -
TR: AFI 41-210
*2.13.22.8. DD Form 2766/2766C, Adult Preventive
and Chronic Care Flowsheet               A1                 5                                                                  1a           2b         c          -           -
TR: AFI 44-173; KX
*2.13.22.9. DD Form 2808, Report of Medical                                                                                    1a           2b         c          -
Examination
*2.13.22.10. DD Form 2807, Report of Medical                                                                                   1a           2b         c          -           -
History
2.13.23. Preventive Health Assessment (PHA)
2.13.23.1. Update ASIMS database                            5                                                                  b             -         c          -           -
2.13.23.2. Coordinate with Unit Health Monitors
                                                                                                                               -             -          -         -           -
(UHM)
2.13.23.3. Schedule PHA                                                                                                        -             -          -         -           -
2.13.23.4. Conduct medical record reviews
                                                                                                                               1a            -         b         c            -
TR: AFI 41-210
*2.13.23.5. Military (mobility) unique requirements                                                                            A             -         B          -           -
*2.13.23.6. Conduct patient interview                                                                                          1a           2b         c          -           -
*2.13.23.7. Record medical history                                                                                             1a           2b         c          -           -
 2.13.23.8. Provide primary preventive counseling                                                                               -            -         -          -           -
2.13.24. Clinical Procedures
2.13.24.1. Administer pseudofolliculitis barbae (PFB)                                                                          -             -         b          -           4
treatments
2.13.24.2. Administer wart (verrucae) treatments                                                                               -             -         b          -           4
2.14. National Registry Emergency Medical Technician
TR: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration EMT- National EMS education standards
2.14.1. Emergency Interventions
TR: Brady EMT Complete, A Basic Worktext, Mosby Nursing Skills
2.14.1.1. Perform Patient assessment                        5                                                                  -             -         c          -           -
2.14.1.2. Pulmonary Assessments and Procedures
TR: Brady EMT Complete, A Basic Worktext
2.14.1.3. Assess breath sounds                              5                                                                  -             -          -         -           -
2.14.1.4. Identify abnormal respirations/oxygen
                                                            5                                                                  -             -          -         -           -
deficit
2.14.1.5. Set-up suctioning equipment                       5                                                                  a             -          -         -           -
2.14.1.6. Suction oral/nasal pharynx                        5                                                                  a             -          -         -           -

                                                                                           40
                                                                            ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                  Aerospace Medical Service (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                       2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                          A        B                                                     A                B          C            D
                                                                                         C Trainee D Trainer E Certifier
                                                                        Trng     Trng                                              3 Skill Level        5 Skill    7 Skill    QTP Volume
                                                                                          Initials  Initials   Initials
                                                                        Start   Complete                                                                Level      Level        Number
                                                                                                                             Phase I         Phase II   CDC         CDC
                                                                                                                             Course           Course
2.14.1.7. Insert nasopharyngeal airway                       5                                                                 a                -          -          -           -
2.14.1.8. Insert oropharyngeal airway                        5                                                                 a                -          -          -           -
2.14.1.9. Ventilate patient with bag-valve-mask              5                                                                 a                -          -          -           -
2.14.1.10. Shock And Control Of Bleeding
2.14.1.10.1. Apply pressure dressing                         5                                                                 A                -          -          -           -
2.14.1.10.2. Elevate bleeding part                           5                                                                 -                -          -          -           -
2.14.1.10.3. Use pressure points to control bleeding                                                                           -                -          -          -           -
                                                             5
2.14.1.10.4. Apply combat gauze                           5                                                                    -                -              -          -           -
2.14.1.10.5. Apply tourniquet                             5                                                                    -                -              -          -           -
2.14.1.10.6. Place patient in shock position              5                                                                    A                -          -          -           -
2.15. Perform Ambulance/Emergency Response Vehicle Operations
2.15.1. Flight line operations                                                                                                 -                -         b           -           -
2.15.2. In-flight emergency procedures                                                                                         -                -         b           -           -
2.15.3. Radio Communications                                                                                                   -                -         b               -           -
2.15.4. Perform grid map plotting                                                                                              -                -         b           -           -
2.16. Medical Evaluation Board (MEB) Process
TR: AFI 36-3212
*2.16.1. Overview of MEB process                                                                                               A                -          -         B            -
2.16.2. IDES program & DAWG                                                                                                    A                -          -         B
2.17. Disposition                                                                                                                                                                 -
2.17.1. Temporary disability retirement limitations
                                                                                                                               -                -         A          B            -
(TDRL)
2.17.2. Assignment limitation code C                                                                                           -                -         A          B            -
2.17.3. Physical Exam Board Liaison Officer
                                                                                                                               -                -         A          B            -
(PEBLO) responsibilities
2.17.4. Record review in lieu of board roles                                                                                   -                -          -          -           -
2.18. Medical Treatment Record Review
TR: AFI 41-210
*2.18.1. Permanent change of station                                                                                           A                -         B          -            -
2.18.2. Security clearance                                                                                                     -                -         A          B            -
*2.18.3. Mobility/deployment                              5                                                                    A                -         B          -            -
*2.18.4. Personnel Reliability Program                                                                                         A                -         B          -            -
2.18.5. Roster validation (31/37/81 Report)                                                                                    -                -         B          -            -
2.19. OPERATE EXPEDITIONARY EQUIPMENT
2.19.1. Portable blood analyzer (ISTAT)                                                                                        -                -          -          -           -
TR: Operator Manual
2.19.2. Portable digital radiology (LUMISYS)                                                                                   -                -          -          -           -
TR: Operation Manual
2.19.3. Deployable oxygen systems (PTLOX/E-                                                                                    -                -          -          -           -
DOX)
TR: Operating Manual
*2.20. Obtain and Maintain National Registry
Emergency Medical Technician Certification (NOTE:
                                                          5                                                                    3c               -          -          -           -
EMT certifications listed in part I section B para 2 of
this CFETP meet requirements)




                                                                                           41
                                                                       ATTACHMENT 3
                                                             Squadron Medical Element (4N0X1) STS
NOTE 1: Squadron Medical Element (SME) Technicians are responsible to maintain appropriate patient care skills (core tasks), and supervisory skills listed in attachment 2 of
this STS. Applies to 4N0X1s in an SME position who are not IDMTs.
NOTE 2: This attachment should be used to conduct on-the-job training (OJT) for SME technicians. All items have been identified as items that each SME technician must
receive OJT from qualified trainers.

1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                  Training/information Provided (See Note)
                                                                                                                       A            B         C            D
                                                                     A        B        C        D        E           N/A        N/A          N/A       QTP Volume
                                                                   Trng      Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier                                           Number
                                                                   Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials

3. SQUADRON MEDICAL ELEMENT
3.1. Obtain and record medical history                                                                                                                                 -
3.2. Intravenous (IV) Therapy
3.2.1. Determine need for IV therapy                                                                                                                                   -
3.2.2. Determine IV equipment needs                                                                                                                                    -
3.2.3. Assemble equipment                                                                                                                                              -
3.2.4. Insert peripheral IV lines                                                                                                                                     1
3.2.5. Establish drip rates                                                                                                                                            -
3.2.6. Monitor infusion/complications                                                                                                                                  -
3.3. Assist With Advanced Airway Management
3.3.1. Advanced foreign body removal                                                                                                                                   -
3.3.2. Endotracheal intubation                                                                                                                                        9
3.3.3. Needle thoracentesis                                                                                                                                           9
3.3.4. Cricothyroidotomy                                                                                                                                              9
3.3.5. Perform PTL/Combi tube insertion                                                                                                                               9
3.4. Minor Surgical Procedures
3.4.1. Apply aseptic and infection control procedures                                                                                                                  -

3.4.2. Use of local anesthetic                                                                                                                                        2
3.4.3. Insert sutures                                                                                                                                                  -
3.4.4. Remove sutures                                                                                                                                                  -
3.5. Perform basic splinting techniques                                                                                                                               3
3.6. Perform Immunization Backup Technician (IBT) Duties
3.6.1. Determine immunization requirements                                                                                                                             -
3.6.2. Administer immunization                                                                                                                                         -
3.6.3. Recognize and Treat Adverse Reactions                                                                                                                           -
3.6.4. Document immunizations in ASIMS                                                                                                                                 -
3.7. Basic Laboratory Procedures
TR: Lippincott, Manual of Nursing Practice
3.7.1. Collect Samples                                                                                                                                                 -
3.7.1.1. Tissue                                                                                                                                                        -
3.7.1.2. Fluid                                                                                                                                                         -
3.7.2. Perform Rapid Reagent Tests
3.7.2.1. Blood                                                                                                                                                         -
3.7.2.2. Urine                                                                                                                                                         -
3.8. Assess injuries with dental complications                                                                                                                         -
3.9. Pharmacology
3.9.1. Identify Commonly Used Drugs
3.9.1.1. Uses                                                                                                                                                          -
3.9.1.2. Complications                                                                                                                                                 -
3.9.1.3. Precautions                                                                                                                                                   -
3.9.2. Identify Schedule Drugs
3.9.2.1. Drug inventory                                                                                                                                                -
3.9.2.2. Maintain AF Form 579                                                                                                                                          -
3.10. Deployment Actions
TR: AFI 10-206, 47-106, 37-124
3.10.1. MEDRED C                                                                                                                                                       -
TR: AFI 10-206, 41-106
3.10.2. Disease Non-Battle Injury (DNBI) Report                                                                                                                        -
TR: AFI 48-105
3.10.3. On-site (SITREP)                                                                                                                                               -
TR: AFI 32-124, 44-106, 10-206
3.10.4. After-action report                                                                                                                                            -



                                                                                     42
                                                                  ATTACHMENT 3
                                                        Squadron Medical Element (4N0X1) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge and Technical References       2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                   Tasks                                                  Training/information Provided (See Note)
                                                                                                                  A            B         C            D
                                                                A        B        C        D        E           N/A        N/A          N/A       QTP Volume
                                                              Trng      Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier                                           Number
                                                              Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials

3.11. Deployment Medical Material (ATC, ATTU,
PAM, etc.)
3.11.1. Concept of operations
3.11.2. Resource management
3.11.3. Set-up and utilization
3.12. Site Selection/Field Sanitation Activities
3.12.1. Conduct food inspections                                                                                                                     -
3.12.2. Waste disposal procedures                                                                                                                    -
3.12.3. Conduct industrial hygiene inspections                                                                                                       -
3.12.4. Perform water sampling/testing                                                                                                               -




                                                                                43
                                                                            ATTACHMENT 4
                                                                   Allergy/Immunization (SEI 453) STS
NOTE 1: Allergy/Immunization (A/I) Technicians are responsible to maintain appropriate patient care skills (core tasks), and supervisory skills listed in attachment 2 of this STS.
NOTE 2: This attachment applies to all personnel who have completed formal training and are currently being utilized as an A/I technician. For SEIs not currently performing A/I
duties in the rank of MSGT and below will sustain their skills IAW AFI 44-102, to include quarterly training as with the IBT.
NOTE 3: Section 4.14, IMMUNIZATION, of this attachment also applies to all personnel trained as an immunization back-up technician and 4N0X1 trained to administer immunizations
in the Immunizations Clinic, Primary Care Teams, in support of mobility processing lines as determined by MTF and the master training plan. IBTs will not serve as permanent NCOIC of
immunization clinics. IBTs are not qualified nor will they administer allergy and related immunotherapy treatments. All IBTs will train to the knowledge level on anthrax and small pox. For
further clarification, refer to Part I, Abbreviations/Terms, of this document."
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    2. Core Task               3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                                        Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
                                                                                       A            B              C            D             E         A         B        C          D
                                                                                     Trng         Trng         Trainee      Trainer Certifier          A/I       N/A     N/A         QTP
                                                                                     Start     Complete         Initials     Initials     Initials   Course                        Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                  Number
4. Administrative Management of the Allergy / Immunization Clinic
TR: Local Standard Operating Procedures
4.1. Mass Immunization Programs
4.1.1. Anthrax Vaccine Immunization Program (AVIP)                                                                                                     B                              -
TR: Current AF Policy
4.1.2. Smallpox Vaccination Program (SVP)
                                                                                                                                                       B                              -
TR: Current AF Policy
4.1.3. Influenza                                                                                                                                       B                              -
4.2. Operating instructions                                                                                                                            B                              -
4.3. Continuing education                                                                                                                              B                              -
4.4. IBT program oversight                                                                                                                             B                              -
4.5. Epidemiology of vaccine preventable disease                                                                                                       B                              -
4.6. ALLERGY
4.6.1 Principles Of Allergies
 TR: Allergic Principles and Practices, Volume I and II (Middleton)
4.6.1.1. Classes Of Allergic Reaction
TR: Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual
4.6.1.1.1. Class I, immediate                                                                                                                          B                             11
4.6.1.1.2. Class II and III                                                                                                                            A                             11
4.6.1.1.3. Class IV, delayed                                                                                                                           B                             11
4.7. Pollen Agents
TR: Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual
4.7.1. Local allergy-causing pollen                                                                                                                    B                             11
4.7.2. Seasons of specific allergy-causing pollen                                                                                                      B                             11
4.8. Principles Of Patient Presentation
4.8.1. Rhinitis
TR: Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual
4.8.1.1. Seasonal                                                                                                                                      B                             11
4.8.1.2. Perennial                                                                                                                                     B                             11
4.8.1.3. Sinusitis                                                                                                                                     B                             11
4.8.2. Vasomotor rhinitis                                                                                                                              B                             11
4.8.3. Stinging insect hypersensitivity                                                                                                                B                             11
4.8.4. Anaphylaxis                                                                                                                                     B                             11
4.8.5. Food allergy                                                                                                                                    B                             11
4.8.6. Medication/vaccine hypersensitivity                                                                                                             B                             11
4.8.7. Irritants and physical agents                                                                                                                   B                             11
4.8.8. Dermatological Manifestations
TR: Allergic Diseases Diagnostic and Management (Patterson)
4.8.8.1. Urticaria                                                                                                                                     B                             11
4.8.8.2. Angio edema                                                                                                                                   B                             11
4.8.8.3. Asthma                                                                                                                                        B                             11
4.9. Diagnostic Procedures
TR: Allergic Principles and Practices, Volume I and II (Middleton)
4.9.1. Perform prick skin test                                                                                                                         2b                            11
4.9.2. Perform intradermal skin test                                                                                                                   2b                            11
4.10. Perform Specialized Skin Testing
TR: Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual
4.10.1. Perform Venoms/hymenoptera                                                                                                                     b                             11
4.10.2. Perform Vaccines                                                                                                                               b                             11
4.10.3. Perform Latex                                                                                                                                  b                             11
4.10.4. Perform PCN                                                                                                                                    b                             11
4.10.5. Perform Medication                                                                                                                             b                             11
4.10.6. Grade/document skin tests                                                                                                                      2b                            11
4.10.7. Perform routine spirometry/flow volume loops                                                                                                   2b                            11


                                                                                            44
                                                                           ATTACHMENT 4
                                                                  Allergy/Immunization (SEI 453) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                            2. Core Task               3. Certification For OJT                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                            Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                  Provided (See Note)
                                                                              A            B              C          D           E          A        B       C         D
                                                                            Trng          Trng         Trainee    Trainer     Certifier    A/I      N/A     N/A       QTP
                                                                            Start       Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials    Course                    Volume
                                                                                                                                                                  Number
4.10.8. Perform pre- and post-bronchodilator studies                                                                                        2b                      11
4.10.9. Perform asthma challenge test                                                                                                       a                       11
4.10.10. Perform peak flow meter studies                                                                                                    2b                      11
4.10.11. Obtain nasal smears                                                                                                                2b                      11
4.10.12. Assist with Rhinoscopy                                                                                                             a                        -
4.11. Prepare And Administer Respiratory Medication
TR: Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual
4.11.1. Metered dose inhaler                                                                                                                1b                       11
4.11.2. Hand held/updraft nebulizer                                                                                                         1b                       11
4.11.3. Document pulmonary diagnostic and therapeutic procedure                                                                             3c                       11
4.12. Preventive Treatment
TR: Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual
4.12.1. Relocation from the source of irritants                                                                                             B                         -
4.12.2. Air conditioning                                                                                                                    B                         -
4.12.3. House dust mite precaution and avoidance program                                                                                    B                         -
4.12.4. Mold/fungal avoidance                                                                                                               B                         -
4.12.5. Animal                                                                                                                              B                         -
4.12.6. Stinging insects                                                                                                                    B                         -
4.13. Pharmacological Treatment
TR: Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual
4.13.1. Antihistamines                                                                                                                      B                         -
4.13.2. Decongestants                                                                                                                       B                         -
4.13.3. Bronchodilators                                                                                                                     B                         -
4.13.4. Expectorants                                                                                                                        B                         -
4.13.5. Steroids                                                                                                                            B                         -
4.13.6. Blood pressure/cardiac medications (beta-blockers)                                                                                  B                         -
4.13.7. Antidepressants                                                                                                                     B                         -
4.14. Immunotherapy
TR: Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual
4.14.1. Types
4.14.1.1. Aeroallergens                                                                                                                     2b                       11
4.14.1.2. Environmentals                                                                                                                    2b                       11
4.14.1.3. Venoms/hymenoptera                                                                                                                2b                       11
4.14.2. Calculate dosage/schedule                                                                                                           3c                       11
4.14.3. Perform proper injection technique                                                                                                  3c                       11
4.15. Administrative Procedures                                                                                                                                       -
4.15.1. Mixing lab                                                                                                                          A                         -
4.15.2. Procurement of skin test trays                                                                                                      A                         -
4.15.3. Procurement of immunotherapy kits                                                                                                   A                         -
4.15.4. Screen/educate patients                                                                                                             2b                        -
4.15.5. Perform Documentation                                                                                                               2b                        -
4.16. Identify/Treat Adverse Reactions
TR: Mosby’s Textbook for Nursing Assistants (Serrention)
4.16.1. Vasovagal                                                                                                                            c                       12
4.16.2. Local                                                                                                                               3c                       12
4.16.3. Systemic/anaphylactic                                                                                                               3c                       12
4.17. Extract Composition/Measurement
TR: Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual
4.17.1. Aqueous                                                                                                                             B                         -
4.17.2. Alum-precipitated                                                                                                                   B                         -
4.17.3. Freeze-dried                                                                                                                        B                         -
4.17.4. Weight/Volume (w/v)                                                                                                                 B                         -
4.17.5. Biological allergen unit (BAU)                                                                                                      B                         -
4.17.6. Protein nitrogen units (PNU)                                                                                                        B                         -
4.17.7. Allergy units (AU)                                                                                                                  B                         -
4.17.8. Micrograms (mcg)                                                                                                                    B                         -
4.17.9. Milligrams (mg)                                                                                                                     B                         -
4.17.10. Volume/Volume (v/v)
4.18. Diluents
TR: Immunofacts (Grabenstein)
4.18.1. Human serum albumin (HSA)                                                                                                           B                         -
4.18.2. Sterile normal saline with phenol                                                                                                   B                         -


                                                                                       45
                                                                      ATTACHMENT 4
                                                             Allergy/Immunization (SEI 453) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                           2. Core Task               3. Certification For OJT                  4.   Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                   Provided (See Note)
                                                                             A            B              C            D          E           A        B       C        D
                                                                           Trng          Trng         Trainee      Trainer    Certifier    A/I      N/A     N/A       QTP
                                                                           Start       Complete       Initials     Initials   Initials    Course                     Volume
                                                                                                                                                                   Number
4.18.3. Glycerin                                                                                                                            B                         -
4.18.4. Mix 10-fold dilutions                                                                                                               3c                       11
4.18.5. Label extract vial                                                                                                                  3c                       11
4.19. IMMUNIZATION
TR: AFI 44-102
4.19.1. Principles Of Immunization
TR: Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases (Pink Book)
4.19.1.1. Active immunization                                                                                                               B                         12
4.19.1.2. Passive immunization                                                                                                              B                         12
4.19.2. Active/Adult Vaccines
TR: Immunofacts (Grabenstein)
4.19.2.1. Types                                                                                                                             C                         12
4.19.2.2. Composition                                                                                                                       C                         12
4.19.2.3. Dosages                                                                                                                           C                         12
4.19.2.4. Schedules                                                                                                                         C                         12
4.19.2.5. Storage/handling                                                                                                                  C                         12
4.19.2.6. Purpose                                                                                                                           C                         12
4.19.2.7. Precautions/contraindications                                                                                                     C                         12
4.19.2.8. Side effects                                                                                                                      C                         12
4.19.2.9. Administer Medications and Vaccines
TR: General Recommendations on Immunization Practices of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP)
4.19.2.9.1. Subcutaneous                                                                                                                    3c                        1
4.19.2.9.2. Intramuscular                                                                                                                   3c                        1
4.19.2.9.3. Intradermal                                                                                                                     3c                        1
4.19.2.9.4. Oral                                                                                                                            3c                        1
4.19.2.9.5. Intranasal                                                                                                                       a                        -
4.19.2.9.6. Scarification technique                                                                                                          a                        -
4.19.3. Pediatric Vaccines
TR: Immunofacts (Grabenstein)
4.19.3.1. Types                                                                                                                             C                         12
4.19.3.2. Composition                                                                                                                       C                         12
4.19.3.3. Dosages                                                                                                                           C                         12
4.19.3.4. Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP)
                                                                                                                                            C                         12
recommended schedules
4.19.3.5. Storage                                                                                                                           C                         12
4.19.3.6. Purpose                                                                                                                           C                         12
4.19.3.7. Precautions / contraindications                                                                                                   C                         12
4.19.3.8. Side effects                                                                                                                      C                         12
4.19.3.9. Administer Medications and Vaccines
TR: Immunofacts (Grabenstein)
4.19.3.9.1. Subcutaneous                                                                                                                    3c                        1
4.19.3.9.2. Intramuscular                                                                                                                   3c                        1
4.19.3.9.3. Intradermal                                                                                                                     3c                        1
4.19.3.9.4. Oral                                                                                                                            3c                        1
4.19.4. Document IAW AFI 48-110IP
4.19.4.1. Immunization record                                                                                                               2b                        12
4.19.4.2. Medical record                                                                                                                    2b                        12
4.19.4.3. USAF Aeromedical Services Information Management System
(ASIMS)ASIMS                                                                                                                                2b                        12
TR: ASIMS AF User Guide
4.19.5. Administer/Read Delayed Skin Tests
TR: Allergy/Clinical Immunology Technician Course Manual
4.19.5.1. Tuberculin unit (5TU) purified protein derivative (PPD) IAW 48-
                                                                                                                                            2b                        11
105 (Para A13.5)
4.19.5.2. Candida albicans                                                                                                                  2b                        11
4.19.5.3. Tetanus toxoid                                                                                                                    2b                        11
4.19.6. Administrative Considerations
4.19.6.1. Geographical requirements (Center for Disease Control (CDC),
                                                                                                                                            A                          -
World Health Organization (WHO), International, and command specific)
4.19.6.2. Requirements for administration of immunizations outside
                                                                                                                                            A                          -
MTF/Medical Unit



                                                                                      46
                                                                         ATTACHMENT 4
                                                              Allergy/Immunization (SEI 453) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                          2. Core Task               3. Certification For OJT                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                 Provided (See Note)
                                                                            A            B              C          D           E          A         B       C         D
                                                                          Trng          Trng         Trainee    Trainer     Certifier    A/I      N/A      N/A      QTP
                                                                          Start       Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials    Course                     Volume
                                                                                                                                                                 Number
4.19.6.3. Waivers
TR: AFI 48-110IP
4.19.6.3.1. Religious                                                                                                                     -                         -
4.19.6.3.2. Medical                                                                                                                       -                         -
4.19.6.3.3. Permanent exemptions                                                                                                          -                         -
4.19.6.3.4. Declination of recommended immunizations                                                                                      -                         -
4.19.6.3.5. Statistical reports                                                                                                           -                         -
4.19.7. Administrative Procedures
TR: AFI 48-110IP
4.19.7.1. Prepare/transcribe immunization records                                                                                         2b                        -
4.19.7.2. Use standard ACIP/Centers for Disease Control (CDC)
                                                                                                                                          2b                        -
abbreviations
4.19.7.3. Provide and document Vaccine Information Statements (VIS)
                                                                                                                                          2b                        -
IAW AFI 48-110IP
4.19.7.4. Complete Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS)
                                                                                                                                          2b                        12
form
4.19.8. Identify And Initiate Treatment of Adverse Reactions
TR: AFI 48-110IP
4.19.8.1. Vasovagal                                                                                                                       3c                        12
4.19.8.2. Local                                                                                                                           3c                        12
4.19.8.3. Systemic/anaphylactic                                                                                                           3c                        12




                                                                                     47
                                                                           ATTACHMENT 5
                                                                         Hemodialysis (SEI 486) STS
NOTE 1: Hemodialysis Technicians are responsible to maintain appropriate patient care skills (core tasks), and supervisory skills listed in attachment 2 of this STS.
NOTE 2: This attachment should be used to conduct on-the-job training (OJT) for Hemodialysis Technicians. All items have been identified as items that each Hemodialysis
Technician must receive OJT from qualified trainers.
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                         A         B          C          D           E           A             B        C         D
                                                                        Trng      Trng     Trainee Trainer Certifier            N/A          N/A       N/A      QTP
                                                                        Start Complete Initials Initials Initials                                              Volume
                                                                                                                                                               Number
5. HEMODIALYSIS SPECIALTY
5.1. Renal Anatomy and Physiology
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Amgen Core Curriculum for the Dialysis Technician
5.1.1. The Kidney                                                                                                                                                       -
5.1.1.1. Structure                                                                                                                                                      -
5.1.1.2. Function                                                                                                                                                       -
5.2. Chronic Kidney Disease
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Amgen Core Curriculum for the Dialysis Technician
 5.2.1. Stages of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) 1-5                                                                                                                      -
 5.2.2. Contributing Factors                                                                                                                                            -
 5.3. Hemodialysis Physiological Basis and Treatment
 TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Amgen Core Curriculum for the Dialysis Technician
 5.3.1. Indications for hemodialysis                                                                                                                                    -
 5.3.1.1. End Staged Renal Disease (CKD 5)                                                                                                                              -
 5.3.1.2. Acute Renal Failure                                                                                                                                           -
5.3.1.2.1 Drug intoxication                                                                                                                                             -
5.3.1.2.2. Fluid Overload                                                                                                                                               -
 5.3.1.2.3. Hyperkalemia                                                                                                                                                -
 5.3.1.2.4. Severe acidosis/alkalosis                                                                                                                                   -
5.4. Dialysis Delivery Methods
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Amgen Core Curriculum for the Dialysis Technician
5.4.1. Chronic Hemodialysis                                                                                                                                             -
5.4.2. Acute Hemodialysis                                                                                                                                               -
5.4.3. Continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT)                                                                                                                      -
5.4.4. Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD)                                                                                                                 -
5.4.5. Continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis (CCPD)                                                                                                                     -
5.5. Universal Precautions
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills
5.5.1. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
5.5.2. Isolation Precautions
5.5.3. HAZCOM
5.5.4. Vaccinations
5.6. Perform Patient Evaluation Procedures
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Amgen Core Curriculum for the Dialysis Technician
5.6.1. Nursing assessment
5.6.1.1. Obtain vital signs
5.6.1.2. Obtain pre-tx weight
5.6.1.3. Review pt hx for dry weight
5.6.1.4. Calculate target loss/ultrafiltration
5.6.1.5. Review lab history
5.6.2. Conflict resolution
5.6.3. Give patient instructions on dialysis tx
5.6.4. Document on electronic medical record
5.7. Prepare for Dialysis Treatment
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Amgen Core Curriculum for the Dialysis Technician; Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) standards; Local
policy
5.7.1. Water Treatment System Overview
5.7.1.1. Locate Components of Water System
5.7.1.1.1. Feed Water Components
5.7.1.1.1.1. Backflow Prevention Device
5.7.1.1.1.2. Temperature Blending Valve
5.7.1.1.1.3. Booster Pump
5.7.1.1.2. Pretreatment Components
5.7.1.1.2.1. Chemical Injection Systems




                                                                                      48
                                                                          ATTACHMENT 5
                                                                       Hemodialysis (SEI 486) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 2. Core Task   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                               A           B              C          D           E             A           B         C            D
                                                                              Trng        Trng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier        N/A         N/A       N/A         QTP
                                                                              Start     Complete       Initials   Initials    Initials                                        Volume
                                                                                                                                                                              Number
5.7.1.1.2.2. Sediment Filters                                                                                                                                                     -
5.7.1.1.2.3. Water Softener
5.7.1.1.2.4. Carbon Tanks
5.7.1.1.2.5. Reverse Osmosis (RO)                                                                                                                          -
5.7.1.1.2.6. Deionization                                                                                                                                  -
5.7.1.1.2.7. Ultraviolent Light                                                                                                                            -
5.7.1.1.2.8. Submicron & Ultrafilters                                                                                                                      -
5.7.1.2. Test Water System Components
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Amgen Core Curriculum for Dialysis Technicians; Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) standard; Local
policy
5.7.1.2.1. RO Product Water
5.7.1.2.2. RO Loop Pre                                                                                                                                       -
5.7.1.2.3. RO Loop Return
5.7.1.2.4. Water Softener                                                                                                                                    -
5.7.1.2.4.1. Hardness test                                                                                                                                   -
5.7.1.2.5. Carbon Tank                                                                                                                                       -
5.7.1.2.5.1. Chlorine test                                                                                                                                   -
5.7.1.2.6. Dialysis Machine                                                                                                                                  -
5.7.1.3. Perform Machine Maintenance
TR: Local Model Operator's Manuals; Local Policy
5.7.1.3.1. Internal disinfection/cleaning                                                                                                                    -
5.7.1.3.1.1. Heat Disinfect                                                                                                                                  -
5.7.1.3.1.2.. Rinse                                                                                                                                          -
5.7.1.3.1.3. Acid Clean                                                                                                                                      -
5.7.1.3.1.4. Chemical/Rinse                                                                                                                                  -
5.7.1.3.1.5. Chemical/Dwell                                                                                                                                  -
5.7.1.3.2. External disinfection                                                                                                                             -
5.7.1.3.2.1. Hospital approved disinfectant                                                                                                                  -
5.8. Perform Dialysis Machine Set-Up
TR: Local Model Operator's Manual; Local Policy
5.8.1. Mix dialysate bath solutions                                                                                                                                              -
5.8.2. Machine self-test                                                                                                                                                         -
5.8.2.1. Pressure test                                                                                                                                                           -
5.8.2.2. Alarm test                                                                                                                                                              -
5.8.3. Reverse osmosis (RO) water test                                                                                                                                           -
5.8.4. Conductivity limits                                                                                                                                                       -
5.8.5. Prime extracorporeal blood circuit/dialyzer (adult&
pediatric)
5.8.6. Recirculation
5.8.7. Blood pressure monitor function test                                                                                                                                      -
5.8.8. Set treatment parameters per physician prescription                                                                                                                       -
5.9. Set-up Peritoneal Cycler
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Local Model Operator's Manual; Local Policy
5.9.1. Select ordered dialysate solution                                                                                                                                         -
5.9.2. Machine Self-Test                                                                                                                                                         -
5.9.3. Prime peritoneal circuit/drain bags (adult &                                                                                                                              -
pediatric)
5.9.4. Enter treatment prescription                                                                                                                                              -
5.10. Set-up Manual Peritoneal Dialysis System
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing
5.10.1. Manifold
5.10.2. Prime Y-Set circuit/drain bags (adult & pediatric)




                                                                                         49
                                                                  ATTACHMENT 5
                                                               Hemodialysis (SEI 486) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                      A         B        C        D        E          A           B      C           D
                                                                     Trng      Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier      N/A         N/A    N/A        QTP
                                                                     Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials                                  Volume
                                                                                                                                                 Number
5.11. Perform access of patient's vascular system for dialysis
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Amgen Core Curriculum for the Dialysis Technician
5.11.1. Arterial-venous (AV) graft/fistula                                                                                                          -
5.11.1.1. Access maturity/patency                                                                                                                   -
5.11.1.1.1. Thrill and Bruit                                                                                                                        -
5.11.1.1.2. Anastomosis                                                                                                                             -
5.11.1.1.3. Signs of infection/infiltration                                                                                                         -
5.11.1.1.4. Arterial/venous area                                                                                                                    -
5.11.1.2. Cannulation of needles                                                                                                                    -
5.11.1.2.1. Rope Ladder technique                                                                                                                   -
5.11.1.2.2. Buttonhole technique                                                                                                                    -
5.11.1.2.3. Collect blood specimen                                                                                                                  -
5.11.2. Perform corrective actions for complications during tx
5.11.2.1. Dislodged needle                                                                                                                          -
5.11.2.2. Infiltration                                                                                                                              -
5.11.2.3. Bleeding at cannulation sites                                                                                                             -
5.11.2.4. Thrombosis                                                                                                                                -
5.11.2.5. Recirculation                                                                                                                             -
5.11.3. Long Term Complications of fistula/graft
5.11.3.1. Steal Syndrome
5.11.3.2. Aneurysm                                                                                                                                  -
5.11.3.3. Stenosis                                                                                                                                  -
5.11.4. Perform termination of Dialysis via fistula/graft
5.11.4.1. Needle removal                                                                                                                            -
5.11.4.2. Hemostasis of cannualtion sites                                                                                                           -
5.11.5. Central Venous Catheters (CVCs) for Dialysis (Temporary and Long Term)
5.11.5.1. Set-up/assist with external CVC placement                                                                                                 -
5.11.5.2. Assess patency of CVC                                                                                                                     -
5.11.5.2.1. Unpack each lumen                                                                                                                       -
5.11.5.3. Perform dressing change using aseptic                                                                                                     -
technique
5.11.5.3.1. Identify signs of infection                                                                                                             -
5.11.6. Perform corrective actions for complications during treatment
5.11.6.1. Bleeding around catheter site
5.11.6.2. Kink or blockage
5.11.6.3. Sluggish normal saline flushes
5.11.7. Long term complications of CVC use
5.11.7.1. Blood infections
5.11.7.2. Inflammation/clotting in vessels
5.11.7.3. Sluggish normal saline flushes
5.11.7.4. Lower blood flow rates/inadequate dialysis
5.11.8. Perform termination of Dialysis via CVC
5.11.8.1. Insert anticoagulant packing into each lumen
5.11.8.2. Apply sterile caps to each lumen
5.12. Perform Physician ordered modifications during treatment
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Local Model Operator's Manual
5.12.1. Increase/decrease target ultrafiltration goal
5.12.2. Increase/decrease dialysate bath electrolyte levels

5.12.3. Increase/decrease blood flow rate
5.12.4. Infuse blood/blood products via machine
5.12.5. Termination of tx & blood return
5.13. Perform Emergency Operations
TR: Local Model Operator's Manual; Local Policy
5.13.1. Termination of dialysis via manual controls
5.13.1.1. Electrical failure
5.13.1.2. Mechanical emergencies
5.13.1.3. Clotted dialyzers
5.13.1.4. Blood leak
5.13.2. On-call procedures

                                                                               50
                                                                    ATTACHMENT 5
                                                                 Hemodialysis (SEI 486) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                        A         B        C        D        E          A           B      C           D
                                                                       Trng      Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier      N/A         N/A    N/A        QTP
                                                                       Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials                                  Volume
                                                                                                                                                   Number
5.13.3. Evacuation Procedures
5.14. Patients With Specific Disorders/Emergency Conditions
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Amgen Core Curriculum for the Dialysis Technician; Local Policy
5.14.1. Cardiac arrest
5.14.2. Air embolus
5.14.3. Hypotension
5.14.4. Hypertension
5.14.5. Arrhythmias
5.14.6. Cramping
5.14.7. Syncope
5.14.8. Shock
5.14.9. Hemolysis
5.14.10. Nausea/vomiting
5.14.11. Seizures
5.14.12. Hypoxia
5.15. Dialysis Medications
TR: ANNA, Core Curriculum for Nephrology Nursing; Amgen Core Curriculum for the Dialysis Technician; Physician's Desk Reference (PDR)
5.15.1. Administer medications per physician's orders
5.15.1.1. Anticoagulants
5.15.1.2. Local Anesthetics
5.15.1.3. Osmotic Diuretics
5.15.1.4. Albumin
5.15.1.5. Normal Saline
5.15.1.6. Oxygen
5.15.2. Working Knowledge of Other Medications
5.15.2.1. Thrombolytic agents
5.15.2.2. Erythropoietin
5.15.2.3. 50% dextrose
5.15.2.4. Paricalcitol
5.15.2.5. Iron Dextrose/Dextran




                                                                                51
                                                                            ATTACHMENT 6
                                                                 Critical Care Technician (SEI 487) STS
NOTE 1: Critical Care Technicians are responsible to maintain appropriate patient care skills (core tasks), and supervisory skills listed in attachment 2 of this STS.
NOTE 2: This attachment should be used to conduct on-the-job training (OJT) for Critical Care Technicians. All items have been identified as items that each Critical Care Technician
must receive OJT from qualified trainers.
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                       2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See note)
                                                                                        A         B        C        D        E        A       B        C           D
                                                                                      Trng       Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier N/A        N/A      N/A         QTP
                                                                                      Start    Complete Initials Initials Initials                              Volume
                                                                                                                                                                           Number
6. CRITICAL CARE
6.1. Pathophysiology of Hemodynamics
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.1.1. Recognize hemodynamic values
6.1.1.1. Adult                                                          -                                                                                                      -
6.1.1.2. Pediatric                                                      -                                                                                                      -
6.1.1.3. Neonate                                                        -                                                                                                      -
6.1.2. Recognize PA Wave Forms
6.1.2.1. PA catheter insertion                                          -                                                                                                     13
6.1.2.2. Right Atrium (RA)                                              -                                                                                                     13
6.1.2.3. Right Ventricle (RV)                                           -                                                                                                     13
6.1.2.4. Pulmonary Artery (PA)                                          -                                                                                                     13
6.1.2.5. Pulmonary Capillary Wedge (PCW)                                -                                                                                                     13
6.1.3. Monitor Patients On Telemetry
6.1.3.1. Identify cardiac rhythms                                       -                                                                                                     13
6.1.3.2. Identify Waveforms                                             -                                                                                                     13
6.1.3.3. Identify Trends                                                -                                                                                                     13
6.1.3.4. Set Up Alarm Parameters                                        -                                                                                                      -
6.1.3.5. Obtain Cardiac Monitoring Strips                               -                                                                                                      -
6.2. Critical Patient Transport Considerations
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care
6.2.1. Stable patient                                                   -                                                                                                      -
6.2.2. Unstable patient                                                 -                                                                                                      -
6.2.3. Neonates                                                         -                                                                                                      -
6.3. Prepare/Transport Patient with Special Equipment for Critical Care Transfer
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care
6.3.1. Assembles transport supplies/equipment                           -                                                                                                      -
6.3.2. Operate Transport Isolettes
6.3.2.1. Pediatric                                                      -                                                                                                      -
6.3.2.2. Neonatal                                                       -                                                                                                      -
6.3.3. Operate ventilator                                               -                                                                                                     13
6.3.4. Transfer patient between stationary ventilator/portable          -
                                                                                                                                                                              13
ventilator
6.4. Set-up and Assist With Medical Examinations / Special Procedures
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.4.1. Pericardiocentesis                                               -                                                                                                      -
6.4.2. Percutaneous (bedside) tracheostomy placement                    -                                                                                                      -
6.4.3. Transurethral bladder placement                                  -
6.4.4. Intubation/extubation                                            -                                                                                                     13
6.4.5. Pronation/supination of intubated patient                        -                                                                                                      -
6.4.6. PEEP-Saver Valve                                                 -                                                                                                      -
6.4.7. Diagnostic Peritoneal Lavage                                     -                                                                                                     13
6.5. Mechanical Ventilation Classifications
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.5.1. Timed Cycled                                                     -
6.5.2. Pressure Cycled                                                  -
6.5.3. Volume Cycled                                                    -
6.5.4. Principles Of Mechanical Ventilation
6.5.4.1. Controlled Ventilation (CV)                                    -
6.5.4.2. Assist/Control (A/C)                                           -
6.5.4.3. Intermittent Mandatory Ventilation (IMV)                       -
6.5.4.4. High Frequency Ventilation (HFV)                               -
6.5.4.5. Pressure Regulated Volume Control (PRVC)                       -
6.5.4.6. Mandatory Minute Ventilation (MMV)                             -
6.5.4.7. Synchronized Intermittent Mandatory Ventilation                -
(SIMV)


                                                                                            52
                                                                          ATTACHMENT 6
                                                            Critical Care Technician (SEI 487) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                A        B        C        D        E        A        B        C           D
                                                                              Trng      Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier N/A         N/A     N/A         QTP
                                                                              Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials                               Volume
                                                                                                                                                       Number
6.5.4.8. Tidal Volume                                                 -
6.5.4.9. Inspiratory Pressure                                         -
6.5.4.10. Inspiratory Flow                                            -
6.5.4.11. I:E Ratio                                                   -
6.5.4.12. Peak airway pressure                                        -
6.5.4.13. Mean airway pressure                                        -
6.5.4.14. Minute Volume                                               -
6.5.4.15. Positive End-Expiratory Pressure (PEEP)                     -
6.5.4.16. Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP)                  -
6.5.4.17. Weaning parameters                                          -
6.6. Perform Ventilator Alarm/Circuit Troubleshooting                 -
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic
                                                                                                                                                          13
Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application

6.7. Principles Of Patient Management
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.7.1. Post-op patient                                          -                                                                                          -
6.7.2. COPD                                                     -                                                                                          -
6.7.3. Status asthmaticus                                       -                                                                                          -
6.7.4. ARDS                                                     -                                                                                          -
6.7.5. ECMO                                                     -                                                                                          -
6.8. Monitor patient on mechanical ventilator
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic
                                                                -                                                                                         13
Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.9. Principles Of Arterial Blood Gas Values
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.9.1. Normal values                                            -                                                                                          -
6.9.2. Analyze ABG results                                      -                                                                                          -
6.10. Setup and Assist with Cardiovascular Procedures
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.10.1. Pulmonary Artery Catheter insertion                     -                                                                                         13
6.10.2. Right Ventricular Ejection Fraction/Volumetric          -                                                                                          -
Oximetry
6.10.3. Continuous Cardiac Output/PA Catheter (CCO/VIP)         -                                                                                          -
6.10.4. Continuous Cardiac Output/Mixed Venous/PA                     -                                                                                    -
Catheter (CCO/SVO2VIP)
6.10.5. Paceport Catheter                                             -                                                                                    -
6.10.6. Transvenous pacing catheter placement                         -                                                                                    -
6.10.7. Flow directed pacing catheter placement                       -                                                                                    -
6.10.8. Monitoring Intra-aortic Balloon Pump Insertion (IABP)         -                                                                                    -
6.10.9. Umbilical artery catheter (UAC) placement                     -                                                                                    -
6.10.10. Synchronized Cardio Version                                                                                                                      13




                                                                                   53
                                                                    ATTACHMENT 6
                                                         Critical Care Technician (SEI 487) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                             A         B        C        D        E        A        B        C           D
                                                                           Trng       Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier N/A         N/A     N/A         QTP
                                                                           Start    Complete Initials Initials Initials                               Volume
                                                                                                                                                     Number
6.11. Perform/Obtain Measurements and Operations
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.11.1. Pulmonary artery pressure measurements (PAP)            -                                                                                       13
6.11.2. Central venous pressure measurements (CVP)              -                                                                                       13
6.11.3. Pulmonary capillary Wedge Pressure                      -                                                                                       13
6.11.4. Cardiac output measurements                             -                                                                                       13
6.11.5. Mixed venous blood sample                               -
6.11.6. Monitor SVO2                                            -
TR: Handbook of Noninvasive Diagnostic Techniques in                                                                                                    13
Vascular Surgery
6.11.7. Ankle Brachial Indexes (ABI)                            -                                                                                       13
6.11.8. Transurethral bladder pressure                                                                                                                  13
6.11.9. ABG percutaneous collection.                                                                                                                    13
6.11.10. Obtain ABG sample from arterial line manifold
6.11.11. Arterial Pressure Measurement                                                                                                                  13
6.12. Set-up and Assist with Special Neurovascular Procedures
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.12.1. Fiber optic sensor for intracranial pressure (ICP)      -
                                                                                                                                                        13
monitoring
6.12.2. Ventriculostomy drain                                   -                                                                                       13
6.12.3. Cold calorics                                           -                                                                                       13
6.13. Perform/Monitor Special Neurovascular Procedures
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.13.1. Intracranial pressures                                  -                                                                                       13
6.13.2. Cerebral Perfusion Pressure (CPP) calculations          -                                                                                       13
6.14. Principles And Management of Hemodialysis
TR: AACN Procedure Manual for Critical Care; Hemodynamic Monitoring: Invasive and Non-invasive Clinical Application
6.14.1. Acute renal failure                                     -                                                                                        -
6.14.2. Fluid overload                                          -                                                                                        -
6.14.3. Acidosis/alkalosis                                      -                                                                                        -
6.14.4. Continuous Renal-to-Replacement Therapy (CRRT)          -                                                                                        -
6.14.5. Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD)        -                                                                                        -
6.14.6. Continuous cyclic peritoneal dialysis (CCPD)            -                                                                                        -




                                                                                   54
                                                                                 ATTACHMENT 7
                                                                              Hyperbaric (SEI 490) STS
NOTE 1: Hyperbaric Medical Technicians are responsible for maintaining appropriate patient care skills (core tasks), and supervisory skills listed in attachment 2 of this STS.
NOTE 2: This attachment applies to all personnel who have completed formal training and are currently being utilized as a Hyperbaric Medical Technician.
NOTE 3: Successful completion of course B3AZY4X0X1-006 is a mandatory requirement for the Hyperbaric Medical Technician Specialty.
NOTE 4: Task/knowledge items identified with an “*” are trained during the resident wartime course.
NOTE 5: Training References (TRs) listed in STS and in bibliography are approved for use in formal course, QTP, and MTP development.
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References 2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                       A        B         C            D              E              A                B             C             D
                                                                     Trng     Trng    Trainee       Trainer       Certifier     Hyperbaric          N/A            N/A           QTP
                                                                     Start Complete Initials        Initials       Initials       Course                                        Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                Number
7. HYPERBARIC SPECIALTY
7.1. Hyperbaric Medicine
*7.1.1. Purpose and evolution                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                     A
TR: Hyperbaric Medicine Practice
7.1.2. Physiological Principles of the Hyperbaric Environment
*7.1.2.1. Decompression physiology                                                                                                   B                                             -
*7.1.2.2. Decompression tables                                                                                                       B                                             -
7.1.3. Physiological Basis and Treatment for Disorders with Hyperbaric Medicine
TR: Hyperbaric Medicine Practice
*7.1.3.1. Acute disorders                                                                                                            B                                             -
*7.1.3.2. Chronic disorders                                                                                                          B                                             -
 7.1.3.3. Experimental                                                                                                               B                                             -
 7.1.3.4. Indications for hyperbaric therapy                                                                                         B                                             -
7.2. Hyperbaric Chamber
7.2.1. Principles of managing and organizing                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                     A
hyperbaric treatment facilities
7.2.2. Principles Of Hyperbaric Chamber Systems
TR: Manufacturers’ Manuals
*7.2.2.1. Air pressurization                                                                                                         B                                             -
*7.2.2.2. Fire suppression                                                                                                           B                                             -
*7.2.2.3. Communication                                                                                                              B                                             -
*7.2.2.4. Mask breathing system (MBS)                                                                                                B                                             -
*7.2.2.5. Liquid oxygen (LOX)                                                                                                        B                                             -
7.2.2.6. Console controls                                                                                                            B                                             -
*7.2.2.7. Suction                                                                                                                    B                                             -
7.2.2.8. Gas analysis                                                                                                                B                                             -
7.2.2.9. Gas mixer                                                                                                                   A                                             -
7.2.2.10. Self-contained breathing                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                     A
apparatus/emergency escape breathing device
*7.2.3. Team duties and responsibilities                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                     B
TR: AFI 48-112
7.2.4. Perform Hyperbaric Chamber Crew Duties
*7.2.4.1. Crew chief                                                                                                                 b                                             -
*7.2.4.2. Chamber operator                                                                                                           b                                             -
7.2.4.3. Medical attendant                                                                                                           b                                             -
7.2.4.4. Inside Observer
*7.2.4.4.1. Clinical                                                                                                                 b                                             -
7.2.4.4.2. Operational                                                                                                               b                                             -
* 7.2.5. Appropriate safety procedures when working                                                                                                                                -
in hyperbaric facilities
TR: Safety Standards for Pressure Vessels for Human                                                                                  B
Occupancy, Hyperbaric Medicine Practice; National
Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) Book 99 Chp 14
7.2.6. Manage Chamber Emergencies
*7.2.6.1. Mechanical emergencies                                                                                                     b                                           -
*7.2.6.2. Power loss                                                                                                                 b                                           -
*7.2.6.3. Loss of accumulator air supply                                                                                             b                                           -
*7.2.6.4. Interior/exterior chamber fire                                                                                             b                                           -
*7.2.6.5. Contaminated air supply                                                                                                    b                                           -
*7.2.6.6. Compressor failure                                                                                                         b                                           -
*7.2.6.7. Loss of breathing gases                                                                                                    b                                           -
*7.2.6.8. Window failure                                                                                                             b                                           -
7.2.7. Operate pass-thru lock                                                                                                        b                                           -
7.2.8. Hyperbaric Maintenance
7.2.8.1. Perform daily inspections and maintenance on                                                                                                                            -
hyperbaric chamber systems and ancillary equipment
TR: Safety Standards for Pressure Vessels for Human                                                                                  b
Occupancy




                                                                                          55
                                                                              ATTACHMENT 7
                                                                           Hyperbaric (SEI 490) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                    A      B          C          D           E            A            B       C        N/A       D
                                                                  Trng   Trng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    Hyperbaric      N/A                        QTP
                                                                  Start Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials      Course                                  Volume
                                                                                                                                                                Number
7.2.8.2. Perform basic troubleshooting procedures on                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                           b
hyperbaric systems
7.3. Hyperbaric Patient Care
TR: Hyperbaric Nursing, Hyperbaric Medicine Practice
7.3.1. Manage Patient Needs with Specific Disorders/Emergency Conditions
TR: Hyperbaric Medicine Practice
*7.3.1.1. Cardiac arrest                                                                                                   b                                      -
*7.3.1.2. Oxygen seizure                                                                                                   b                                      -
*7.3.1.3. Hypoglycemic reaction                                                                                            b                                      -
*7.3.1.4. Anxiety                                                                                                          b                                      -
*7.3.1.5. Claustrophobia                                                                                                   b                                      -
*7.3.1.6. Decompression sickness                                                                                           b                                      -
*7.3.1.7. Arterial gas embolism                                                                                            b                                      -
*7.3.1.8. Barotrauma (ears, sinuses, lungs)                                                                                b                                      -
*7.3.1.9. Combative patient                                                                                                b                                      -
7.3.2. Ancillary Medical Equipment
TR: Hyperbaric Nursing
*7.3.2.1. Cardiac monitor/defibrillator                                                                                   B                                       -
*7.3.2.2. BVM                                                                                                             C                                       -
*7.3.2.3. Suction device                                                                                                  C                                       -
7.3.2.4. Infusion pump                                                                                                    B                                       -
*7.3.2.5. Glucose monitor                                                                                                 B                                       -
*7.3.2.6. Ventilator                                                                                                      A                                       -
7.3.2.7. Pulse oximeter                                                                                                   A                                       -
*7.3.2.8. Oxygen hoods/nebulizer                                                                                          B                                       -
*7.3.2.9. Tracheostomy cuffs                                                                                              A                                       -
*7.3.3. Monitor IVs during hyperbaric treatment                                                                           b                                       -
*7.3.4. Surgical drains                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                          A
TR: Hyperbaric Medicine Practice
*7.3.5. Schedule/assist in patient evaluation                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                           a
TR: Hyperbaric Nursing
*7.3.6. Assist with/perform wound care                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                           b
TR: Wound Care Practice
7.3.7. Assist With/Apply Complex Dressings
7.3.7.1. Negative Pressure Therapy                                                                                                                   -            -
7.3.7.2. Four Layer Compression Dressing                                                                                                             -            -
7.3.7.3. Unna boot                                                                                                                                   -            -
7.3.7.4. Biologically Derived Skin Substitutes                                                                                                       -            -
7.3.7.5. Biomaterial Wound Matrix Dressing                                                                                                           -            -
7.3.8. Assist with/perform transcutaneous oxygen                                                                                                                  -
monitoring (TCPO2)                                                                                                        2b
TR: Hyperbaric Nursing
7.3.9. Perform ankle-brachial index (ABI)                                                                                                            -            -
7.4. Infection Control Considerations
TR: Hyperbaric Nursing
*7.4.1. Maintain standards for hyperbaric treatment                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                           b
facilities
*7.4.2. Clean, store, and maintain dive clothing and                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                           b
linen
7.4.3. Clean and store medical equipment                                                                                                             -            -
7.4.4. Prepare medical equipment for sterilization                                                                                                   -            -
7.5. Hyperbaric Administration
7.5.1. Hazardous duty pay qualification procedures                                                                        A                                       -
7.5.2. Schedule/conduct tour and briefings                                                                                                           -            -
7.5.3. Schedule test of pressure dives                                                                                                               -            -
7.5.4. Prepare and maintain call rosters                                                                                                             -            -
7.5.5. Schedule daily chamber activities                                                                                                             -            -




                                                                                    56
                                                                            ATTACHMENT 7
                                                                         Hyperbaric (SEI 490) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                       A      B           C          D           E            A            B       C        N/A       D
                                                                     Trng   Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    Hyperbaric      N/A                        QTP
                                                                     Start Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials      Course                                  Volume
                                                                                                                                                                    Number
7.5.6. Orient Medical Supplemental Team Members
7.5.6.1. Administrative procedures                                                                                                                       -            -
7.5.6.2. Inside observer duties                                                                                                                          -            -
7.5.6.3. Principles of hyperbaric chamber safety and                                                                                                     -            -
equipment familiarization
7.5.7. Documentation And Forms
*7.5.7.1. Hyperbaric patient chart                                                                                            A                                       -
*7.5.7.2. AF Form 1389, Clinical Hyperbaric                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                              B
Treatment Record
7.5.7.3. Personnel documentation                                                                                              A                                       -
7.6. Hyperbaric Patient And Lecture Photo Repository
7.6.1. Initiate patient and lecture photo repository                                                                                                     -            -
7.6.2. Locate and retrieve patient and lecture photo                                                                                                     -            -




                                                                                        57
                                                                         ATTACHMENT 8
                                                                Aeromedical Evacuation (SEI 494) STS
NOTE 1: Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) Technicians are responsible to maintain appropriate patient care skills (core tasks), and supervisory skills listed in attachment 2 of this STS.
NOTE 2: This attachment applies to all personnel who have completed formal training and are currently being utilized as an AE Technician.
NOTE 3: This attachment is used to define the contractual task items to be instructed in Course B3AZY4N0X1-000. In lieu of completing attachment 8 and to prevent duplication of
documentation following completion of formal training, AF IMT 4024, Aircrew Training Accomplishment Report, will be used to document all AE Technician qualification/certification
training and will be filed appropriately in Part 6, Section C, of the member’s Enlisted Training and Competency Folder.
NOTE 4: Refer to AFI 11-2AE, Volume 1, for mandatory formal training requirements
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         2. Core Task    3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                          A         B             C           D          E           A         B       C             D
                                                                        Trng       Trng         Trainee    Trainer    Certifier A/E Course FTU N/A                  QTP
                                                                        Start    Complete       Initials   Initials   Initials                                     Volume
                                                                                                                                                                   Number
8. AEROMEDICAL EVACUATION (AE)
8.1 Stresses of flight                                                                                                                C                                   -
8.2. Perform Inflight Patient Care
TR: 41-307
8.2.1. Patient assessment                                                                                                             2b                                  -
8.2.2. Multi-system trauma                                                                                                            2b                                  -
8.2.3. Respiratory disorders                                                                                                          2b                                  -
8.2.4. Cardiac disorders                                                                                                              2b                                  -
8.2.5. Neurological disorders                                                                                                         2b                                  -
8.2.6. Pediatrics                                                                                                                     2b                                  -
8.2.7. Obstetrics                                                                                                                     2b                                  -
8.2.8. Orthopedic disorders                                                                                                           2b                                  -
8.2.9. EENT disorders                                                                                                                 2b                                  -
8.2.10. GI/GU disorders                                                                                                               2b                                  -
8.2.11. Burns                                                                                                                         2b                                  -
8.2.12. Mental health                                                                                                                 2b                                  -
8.2.13. Decompression sickness                                                                                                        2b                                  -
8.2.14. Blood dyscrasias                                                                                                              2b                                  -
8.2.15. Diabetes                                                                                                                      2b                                  -
8.2.16. Drug overdose                                                                                                                 2b                                  -
8.2.17. Wound management                                                                                                              2b                                  -
8.2.18. Pain assessment and management                                                                                                2b                                  -
8.2.19. Infection control                                                                                                             2b                                  -
8.2.20. Patient care documentation                                                                                                    2b
8.3. Respond To Patient Emergencies
TR: AFI 41-307, AFI 11-2AE Vol 3
8.3.1. Cardiac/respiratory arrest interventions                                                                                       3c                                  -
8.3.2. Shock                                                                                                                          3c                                  -
8.3.3. Hyperventilation/hypoxia                                                                                                       3c                                  -
8.4. Operate AE Medical Equipment
TR: AFI 41-309, AFI 11-2AE Vol 3
8.4.1. Chest drainage devices                                                                                                         3c                                  -
8.4.2. Wound Vac/Negative Pressure                                                                                                    2c
8.4.3. Mobile Oxygen Storage Tank                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                      3c
(MOST)/Portable Therapeutic Oxygen System
8.4.4. Oxygen analyzer/MiniOX                                                                                                         2b                                  -
8.4.5. Ventilator                                                                                                                     2b                                  -
8.4.6. Cardiac monitor/defibrillator                                                                                                  3c                                  -
8.4.7. Litter and backrest                                                                                                            3c                                  -
8.4.8. Use of Restraints                                                                                                              3c
8.4.9. Pulse oximeter                                                                                                                 2b                                  -
8.4.10. Suction devices                                                                                                               3c                                  -
8.4.11. Electrical Cable Assembly Set (ECAS)                                                                                          2b                                  -
8.4.12. Infusion pumps                                                                                                                3c                                  -
8.4.13. Vital signs monitor                                                                                                           2b                                  -
8.4.14. Patient Loading System (PLS)                                                                                                  2b                                  -
8.4.15. Patient support pallet                                                                                                        2b                                  -
8.4.16. Bag valve mask                                                                                                                3c                                  -
8.4.17. Airway adjuncts                                                                                                               2b                                  -
8.4.18. Spinal injury transport device                                                                                                2b                                  -
8.4.19. Neonatal transport device                                                                                                     2b                                  -
8.4.20. Portable Therapeutic Liquid Oxygen                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                      3c
(PTLOX) System
8.5. Locate Supplies In AE Inflight Kit                                                                                               2b                                  -
8.6. Patient movement items/plexus                                                                                                    B                                   -




                                                                                         58
                                                                       ATTACHMENT 8
                                                              Aeromedical Evacuation (SEI 494) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        2. Core Task   3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                       A         B              C           D          E           A          B      C              D
                                                                     Trng       Trng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier A/E Course FTU N/A                   QTP
                                                                     Start    Complete        Initials   Initials   Initials                                     Volume
                                                                                                                                                                 Number
8.7. AE Technician (AET) Duty Progression
TR: AFI 11-2AE Vols 1, 2, 3
8.7.1. AET (X4N0X1)                                                                                                               A                               -
8.7.2. AET flight instructor                                                                                                      A                               -
8.7.3. AET flight examiner                                                                                                        A                               -
8.8. Cockpit/crew resource management (CRM)
                                                                                                                                  B         3c                    -
TR: AFIs 11-290, 36-2243
8.9. Aircraft/Flightline Safety
TR: AFI 11-2AE Vol 3, T.O. 1- CXXX-1, T.O. 00-25-172
8.9.1. Engine air intake and exhaust                                                                                              B         3b                    -
8.9.2. High-intensity sound                                                                                                       B         3b                    -
8.9.3. Propeller/rotor planes of rotation                                                                                         B         3b                    -
8.9.4. Antenna radiation                                                                                                          B         3b                    -
8.9.5. Aircraft electrical system safety                                                                                          B         3b                    -
8.9.6. Aircraft oxygen system safety                                                                                              B         3b                    -
8.9.7. Aircraft fire extinguishers                                                                                                B         3b                    -
8.9.8. Foreign object damage (FOD)                                                                                                B         3b                    -
8.9.9. Safe handling of weapons in the aviation
                                                                                                                                  B         3b                    -
environment
8.9.10. Vehicle operations on the flightline                                                                                      B         3b                    -
8.9.11. Safety during refueling operations                                                                                        B         3b                    -
8.10. Security
TR: AFI 11-2AE V3
8.10.1. Flightline security procedures                                                                                            B         3b                    -
8.10.2. Anti-hijacking procedures                                                                                                 B         3b                    -
8.10.3. Anti-terrorism                                                                                                            B         3b                    -
8.11. Publications
TR: AFI 11-201; AFI 11-202 V2; AFI 11-2AE V3
8.11.1. Aircrew publications                                                                                                      B         3b                    -
8.11.2. Locate information in technical orders and
standard publications applicable to AE duties and                                                                                 2b        3b                    -
functions
8.11.3. Complete applicable forms                                                                                                 2b        3b                    -
8.11.4. Review flight crew information file                                                                                       2b        3b                    -
8.11.5. Posting changes to standard publications                                                                                  2b        3b                    -
8.11.6. Use abbreviated checklist                                                                                                 3c        3b                    -
8.12. Aircrew Management
TR: AFIs 11-202 series, -401, -402, -11-2AE Vols 1, 2, 3
8.12.1. Functions of aviation resource managers                                                                                   A         3b                    -
8.12.2. Aviation Resource Management System
                                                                                                                                  A         3b                    -
report
8.12.3. Flight records folder (FRF)                                                                                               A         3b                    -
8.12.4. Aircrew Training Program                                                                                                  A         3b                    -
8.12.5. Flight authorization                                                                                                      A         3b                    -
8.12.6. Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program                                                                                A         3b                    -
8.12.7. Flight evaluation folder (FEF)                                                                                            A         3b                    -
8.12.8. General flight rules                                                                                                      A         3b                    -
8.12.9. Flight currency                                                                                                           A         3b                    -
8.12.10. Aircrew scheduling restrictions                                                                                          B         3b                    -
8.12.11. Calculate crew duty time/crew rest                                                                                       2b        3b                    -
8.12.12. Calculate flight duty periods                                                                                            2b        3b                    -
8.13. AE Aircrew Duties/Activities
TR: AFI 11-2AE Vol 3, AFI 41-309
8.13.1. Preflight duties                                                                                                          B         3b                    -
8.13.2. Perform medical equipment preflight                                                                                       2b        3b                    -
8.13.3. Perform medical equipment functional                                                                                      2b        3b                    -




                                                                                      59
                                                                        ATTACHMENT 8
                                                               Aeromedical Evacuation (SEI 494) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         2. Core Task   3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                        A         B              C           D          E           A          B      C              D
                                                                      Trng       Trng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifier A/E Course FTU N/A                   QTP
                                                                      Start    Complete        Initials   Initials   Initials                                     Volume
                                                                                                                                                                  Number
8.13.4. Crew duties (CAET, 2AET, 3AET)                                                                                             B         3b                    -
8.13.5. Perform patient briefings                                                                                                  2b        3b                    -
8.13.6. Perform Actions Associated with:
8.13.6.1. Inflight door warning light                                                                                              3c        3b                    -
8.13.6.2. Ditching                                                                                                                 3c        3b                    -
8.13.6.3. Crash landing                                                                                                            3c        3b                    -
8.13.6.4. Fuselage fire/smoke-fumes                                                                                                3c        3b                    -
8.13.6.5. Emergency signals                                                                                                        3c        3b                    -
8.14 Mission Planning/Management
TR: 11-2AE Vols 1, 2, 3
8.14.1. Patient preparation for AE                                                                                                 B         3b                    -
8.14.2. Transport of blood products                                                                                                B         3b                    -
8.14.3. Border clearance procedures                                                                                                A         3b                    -
8.14.4. Remain overnight (RON) mission
management                                                                                                                         B         3b                    -

8.14.5. Perform patient enplaning/deplaning
                                                                                                                                   3c        3b                    -
procedures
8.14.6. Develop patient positioning plan                                                                                           2b        3b                    -
8.14.7. Perform mission launch/recovery procedures                                                                                 2b        3b                    -
8.15. Patient Administrative Management
TR: 11-2AE Vols 1, 2, 3; AFI 41-307
8.15.1. Do Not Resuscitate                                                                                                         B         3b                    -
8.15.2. Sign-out of AE system                                                                                                      B         3b                    -
8.15.3. Powers-of-attorney                                                                                                         B         3b                    -
8.16. Aeromedical Evacuation Aircraft
TR: Applicable T.O. 1C-XX-1, AFI 11-AE Vol 3
8.16.1. Capabilities of Air Mobility aircraft                                                                                      B         3b                    -
8.16.2. Capabilities of Civil Reserve Air Fleet                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                   B
(CRAF) aircraft
8.16.3. Provide patient oxygen using aircraft                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                  3c/x       3b
therapeutic oxygen system
8.16.4. Provide electrical power for medical                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                   3c        3b
equipment using aircraft electrical system
8.16.5. Configure aircraft for AE mission                                                                                          3c        3b                    -
8.16.6. Floor load litter patients for AE mission                                                                                  2b        3b                    -
8.16.7. Operate Doors/Hatches                                                                                                      2b        3b                    -
8.16.8. Emergency equipment                                                                                                        B         3b                    -
8.16.9. Fire extinguisher                                                                                                          B         3b                    -
8.16.10. Oxygen mask/goggles                                                                                                       B         3b                    -
8.16.11. Emergency passenger oxygen                                                                                                B         3b                    -
8.16.12. Crash axe                                                                                                                 B         3b                    -
8.16.13. Escape ropes                                                                                                              B         3b                    -
8.16.14. Emergency crew oxygen sources                                                                                             B         3b                    -
8.17. Aeromedical Evacuation Operations
TR: AFTTP 3-42.5 AFI 11-2AE Vol. 3 AFI 41-307
8.17.1. Patient movement request                                                                                                   A         3b                    -
8.17.2. Patient movement requirements centers                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                   A         3b
(PMRC)
8.17.3. AE command & control (C2) agencies                                                                                         A         3b                    -
8.17.4. AE unit type code (UTC) capabilities                                                                                       A                               -
8.17.5. Classification of AE patients                                                                                              B         3b                    -
8.17.6. Movement precedence of AE patients                                                                                         B         3b                    -
8.17.7. Responsibilities of originating facilities                                                                                 B         3b                    -




                                                                                       60
                                                                             ATTACHMENT 9
                                                                       Neurodiagnostic (4N0X1B) STS
NOTE 1: Neurodiagnostic Technologist are responsible to maintain appropriate patient care skills (core tasks), and supervisory skills listed in attachment 2 of this STS.
NOTE 2: This attachment applies to all personnel who have completed formal training and are currently being utilized as a Neurodiagnostic Technologist.
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              2. Core Task     3. Certification For OJT                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                              A          B        C           D         E           A         B         C                     D
                                                                            Trng     Trng    Trainee Trainer Certifier Neurology             N/A          N/A                QTP
                                                                            Start   Complete Initials Initials Initials Course                                              Volume
                                                                                                                                                                            Number
9. NEURODIAGNOSTIC SPECIALTY
9.1. Patient Management
TR: Back to Basics: A Handbook of EEG Technology
9.1.1. Obtain patient history                                                                                                       b                                         -
9.1.2. Schedule patient for examination                                                                                             b                                         -
9.1.3. Brief patient on examination                                                                                                 b                                         -
9.1.4. Maintain required records                                                                                                    b                                         -
9.2. Laboratory Management
9.2.1. Maintain laboratory with necessary equipment
                                                                                                                                    b                                         -
TR: Operator’s Manual
9.2.2. Take Precautionary Measures With Examination Room Equipment
TR: Back to Basics: A Handbook of EEG Technology
9.2.2.1. Types of locations to be avoided                                                                                          2b                                         -
9.2.2.2. Sufficient storage space                                                                                                  2b                                         -
9.2.3. Maintain filing system for records and reports                                                                              2b                                         -
9.3. Introduction to the Electroencephalograph (EEG)
TR: Fundamentals of EEG Technology Vol 1; Principles of Anatomy & Physiology
9.3.1. History of EEG equipment                                                                                                     A                                         -
9.3.2. Uses of EEG equipment in diagnosing diseases of
                                                                                                                                    A                                         -
the brain
9.3.3. Basic neuroanatomy                                                                                                           A                                         -
9.3.4. Neurophysiological principles                                                                                                A                                         -
9.3.5. Physics of EEG                                                                                                               A                                         -
9.4. Neurodiagnostic Equipment Operation
TR: Fundamentals of EEG Technology Vol 1
9.4.1. Prepare patient for examination                                                                                             3b                                         -
9.4.2. Place patient in appropriate position for desired
                                                                                                                                   3b                                         -
examination
9.4.3. Prepare neurodiagnostic equipment for desired
examination
                                                                                                                                   3b                                         -
TR: A Review of the International Ten-Twenty System of
Electrode Placement
9.5. Provide Care For Patients with Specific Needs
TR: Electroencephalography: Basic Principles, Clinical Applications and Related Fields
9.5.1. Children
                                                                                                                                   3b                                         -
TR: Atlas of Pediatric electroencephalography
9.5.2. Epileptic
                                                                                                                                   3b                                         -
TR: Current Practice of Clinical Electroencephalography
9.5.3. Confused
                                                                                                                                   3b                                         -
 TR: Journal of Clinical Neurophysiology Vol 11 No 1
9.5.4. Aphasic
TR: Electroencephalography: Basic Principles,
Clinical                                                                                                                           3b                                         -
Applications and Related Fields
9..5.5. Psychotic
TR: Electroencephalography: Basic Principles, Clinical                                                                             3b                                         -
Applications and Related Fields
9.5.6. Stuporous
TR: Electroencephalography: Basic Principles,
Clinical                                                                                                                           3b                                         -
 Applications and Related Fields
9.5.7. Comatose
                                                                                                                                   3b                                         -
     TR: Journal of Clinical Neurophysiology Vol 11
No 1
9.6. Electrode Considerations
TR: Patient Care and Infection Control
9.6.1. Infection control techniques as applied to electrodes                                                                        A                                         -
9.6.2. Disc electrodes                                                                                                              A                                         -
9.6.3. Additional types of electrodes                                                                                               A                                         -
9.7. Apply Electrodes To Patient
TR: A Review of the International Ten-Twenty System of Electrode Placement
9.7.1. Disc electrodes – paste                                                                                                     3b                                         -
9.7.2. Disc electrodes – collodion                                                                                                 3b                                         -
9.7.3. Additional electrodes                                                                                                       3b                                         -


                                                                                            61
                                                                           ATTACHMENT 9
                                                                     Neurodiagnostic (4N0X1B) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            2. Core Task    3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                           A          B        C       D        E           A         B         C                D
                                                                         Trng       Trng     Trainee Trainer Certifier Neurology N/A            N/A             QTP
                                                                         Start Complete Initials Initials Initials       Course                                Volume
                                                                                                                                                               Number
9.8. EEG Recording Processes
TR: Fundamentals of EEG Technology Vol 1
9.8.1. Perform Appropriate Recording Methods To Obtain Brain Wave Recordings
9.8.1.1. Referential methods                                                                                               3b                                   10
9.8.1.2. Bipolar methods                                                                                                   3b                                   10
9.8.1.3. Mapping montages
                                                                                                                           3b                                   10
TR: Neuroimaging, Principles of Neurology
9.8.1.4. Sleep recordings
                                                                                                                           3b                                   10
TR: Principles and Practice of Sleep Medicine
9.8.1.5. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation                                                                           3b                                   10
9.8.1.6. Activation methods                                                                                                3b                                   10
9.8.1.7. Portable recordings at bedside
                                                                                                                           3b                                   10
TR: Back to Basics: A Handbook of EEG Technology
9.8.1.8. Electrocortical silence recordings (brain death)                                                                  3b                                   10
9.8.1.9. Double distance montage                                                                                           3b                                   10
9.8.1.10. Neonatal methods                                                                                                 3b                                   10
9.8.1.11. MSLT montage
                                                                                                                           3b                                   10
TR: Principles of Practice of Sleep Medicine
9.8.2. Recording Techniques
TR: Fundamentals of EEG Technology Vol 1
9.8.2.1. Detect artifacts                                                                                                  3b                                   10
9.8.2.2. Identify artifacts                                                                                                3b                                   10
9.8.2.3. Eliminate artifacts                                                                                               3b                                   10
9.8.2.4. Annotate graph form with artifact information                                                                     3b                                   10
9.8.2.5. Assist in evaluating pathological waveforms of
recording                                                                                                                  3b                                   10
TR: Back to Basics: A Handbook of EEG Technology
9.9. Preventive Maintenance of Neurodiagnostic Equipment
TR: Operator’s Manual
9.9.1. Perform minor maintenance on EEG
equipment                                                                                                                  3b                                    -
9.9.2. Replace worn-out electrode leads                                                                                    3b                                    -
9.9.3. Perform routine troubleshooting to locate defects                                                                   3b                                    -
9.9.4. Report major breakdown of equipment                                                                                 3b                                    -
9.9.5. Maintain required maintenance records                                                                               3b                                    -
9.10. Assist Medical Officer In Procedures
TR: Electroencephalography: Basic Principles, Clinical Applications and Related Fields
9.10.1. Electromyography                                                                                                   1b                                   10
9.10.2. Nerve conduction velocities                                                                                        1b                                   10
9.11. Evoked Potential Recording Modalities
TR: Sphelmann’s Evoked Potential Primer
9.11.1. Perform Appropriate Recording Methods To Obtain Evoked Potential
9.11.1.1. Visual evoked potential - pattern reversal                                                                       3b                                   10
9.11.1.2. Visual evoked potential - light emitting diode
                                                                                                                           3b                                   10
(LED)
9.11.1.3. Brainstem auditory evoked potential                                                                              3b                                   10
9.11.1.4. Somatosensory evoked potential - upper
                                                                                                                           3b                                   10
extremity
9.11.1.5. Somatosensory evoked potential - lower
                                                                                                                           3b                                   10
extremity
9.11.2. Recording Techniques
9.11.2.1. Detect artifacts                                                                                                 3b                                   10
9.11.2.2. Eliminate artifacts                                                                                              3b                                   10
9.11.2.3. Perform technical analysis of recording                                                                          3b                                   10
9.11.2.4. Assist in evaluating pathological waveforms of
                                                                                                                           3b                                   10
recording




                                                                                         62
                                                                        ATTACHMENT 9
                                                                  Neurodiagnostic (4N0X1B) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                       A          B         C      D        E           A         B    C       N/A           D
                                                                     Trng        Trng    Trainee Trainer Certifier Neurology N/A                            QTP
                                                                     Start Complete Initials Initials Initials       Course                                Volume
                                                                                                                                                           Number
9.12. Nerve Conduction Recording Processes
TR: Electroencephalography: Basic Principles, Clinical Applications and Related Fields
9.12.1. Perform Appropriate Recording Methods To Obtain Nerve Conduction Velocity Study
TR: Sphelmann’s Evoked Potential Primer
9.12.1.1. Upper extremity stimulate                                                                                    3b                                   10
9.12.1.2. Lower extremity stimulate                                                                                    3b                                   10
9.12.1.3. Specialized studies                                                                                          3b                                   10
9.12.2. Recording Techniques
TR: Sphelmann’s Evoked Potential Primer
9.12.2.1. Detect artifacts                                                                                             3b                                   10
9.12.2.2. Identify artifacts                                                                                           3b                                   10
9.12.2.3. Eliminate artifacts                                                                                          3b                                   10
9.12.2.4. Perform technical analysis of recording                                                                      3b                                   10
9.12.2.5. Assist in evaluating pathological waveforms of
                                                                                                                       3b                                   10
recording




                                                                                     63
                                                                         ATTACHMENT 10
                                                          Independent Duty Medical Technician (4N0X1C) STS
NOTE 1: IDMTs are responsible to maintain appropriate patient care skills (core tasks), and supervisory skills listed in attachment 2 of this STS
NOTE 2: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime, i.e., course content will not be abbreviated during wartime.
NOTE 3: Annual training accomplished IAW AFI 44-103, The Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Program.
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                           A             B               C             D             E           A             B             C           D
                                                                         Trng          Trng           Trainee       Trainer      Certifier     IDMT           N/A          N/A         QTP
                                                                         Start        Complete        Initials      Initials      Initials     Course                                 Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                      Number
10. INDEPENDENT DUTY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN
10.1. Administration Of Medical Activities/Procedures
10.1.1. Beneficiary counseling and assisting coordinator
TR: AFIs 41-101, 41-210                                                                                                                          B
10.1.2. Line-of-duty (LOD) determination
TR: AFIs 36-2910, 41-210                                                                                                                         B
10.1.3. Performance improvement
TR: AFIs 44-103, 44-119                                                                                                                          B
10.1.4. Medical logistics procedures
TR: AFMAN 23-110                                                                                                                                 B
10.1.5. Medical affirmation claims
TRs AFI 44-119 and 51-502                                                                                                                        B
10.1.6. IDMT program
TR: AFI 44-103                                                                                                                                   B
10.1.6.1. Training documentation
TR AFI 36-2201                                                                                                                                   B
10.1.7. Post-mortem procedures
TR: AFI 34-242, 36-3002, 44-119                                                                                                                  B
10.1.8. Resource management
TR: AFI 41-120                                                                                                                                   B
10.1.9. Aircrew Management
TR: AFI 48-123, AFI 11-201,AFI 48-149
10.1.9.1. Aircraft mishap response/investigation
TR: AFM 91-223, AFI 48-149
                                                                                                                                                 B
10.1.9.2. Aeromedical dispositions                                                                                                               B
10.1.10. Operational Reporting
10.1.10.1. MEDRED C
TR: AFIs 10-206, 41-106                                                                                                                          B
10.1.10.2. Disease Non-Battle Injury (DNBI) Report
TR: AFI 48-105                                                                                                                                   B
10.1.10.3. On-site (SITREP)
TR: AFIs 10-206, 44-106, 10-244, 41-106                                                                                                          B
10.1.10.4. After-action report
TR: AFIs 10-206, 44-106, 10-244                                                                                                                  B
10.1.10.5. Utilize Deployable Medical Record System                                                                                              B
10.1.10.6. TRAC2ES                                                                                                                               B
10.1.10.7. Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
TR: AFMAN 13-501; DODI 5210.42R                                                                                                                  B
10.1.11. Communicable disease reporting
TR: Armed Forces Reportable Guidelines and Case
Definitions                                                                                                                                      B
10.1.12. Maintain military health records
AFIs 41-210, 47-101                                                                                                                              3c
10.1.13. Files maintenance
TR: AFIs 41-210, 47-101, AFMAN 33-363                                                                                                            B
10.1.14. Duty limiting conditions reporting
TR: AFI 48-123, AFI 10-203                                                                                                                       3c
10.1.15. Drug Demand Reduction Prgm duties
TR: AFI 44-120                                                                                                                                   b
10.1.16. Describe medical evidence protection/chain
of custody
TR: AFI 44-120, 91-204, Armed Forces Institute of
Pathology Handbook                                                                                                                               c
10.2. History And Physical
TR: Bates Guide to Physical Examination and History Taking
10.2.1. Obtain and record medical histories                                                                                                      3c
10.2.2. Perform patient examinations                                                                                                             3c
10.2.3. Formulate diagnosis and treatment plans                                                                                                  3c
10.2.4. Perform gynecological exams                                                                                                              2b
10.3. Pharmacy And Therapeutics
TR: AFMAN 13-501; DODI 5210.42R; Basic and Clinical Pharmacology, Physicians Drug Handbook, Current Medical Diagnosis and Treatment
10.3.1. Commonly Used Medications                                                                                                                C
10.3.1.1. Accountability and Maintenance                                                                                                         C
10.3.1.2. Dispensing Criteria                                                                                                                    C
10.3.1.3. Prescribing Criteria                                                                                                                   C
10.3.2. Controlled Medications
10.3.2.1. Accountability and Maintenance                                                                                                         3c
10.3.2.2. Maintain AF 579                                                                                                                        3c




                                                                                                 64
                                                                   ATTACHMENT 10
                                                    Independent Duty Medical Technician (4N0X1C) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    2. Core Task   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                   A            B                 C          D           E           A             B             C           D
                                                                 Trng         Trng             Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     IDMT           N/A          N/A         QTP
                                                                 Start       Complete          Initials   Initials    Initials     Course                                 Volume
                                                                                                                                                                          Number
10.3.2.3. Perform inventory                                                                                                         3c
10.3.2.4. Dispensing criteria                                                                                                       3c
10.3.2.5. Prescribing criteria                                                                                                      3c
10.3.3. Medication Administration                                                                                                   3c
10.3.3.1. Adding medication to IV solution                                                                                          3c
10.3.3.2. Using secondary bad (piggyback)                                                                                           3c
10.3.3.3. IV/IO push                                                                                                                3c
10.4. Perform Medical Laboratory Procedures
TR:Bailey & Scott's Diagnostic Microbiology and Washington Manual of Medical Therapeutics
10.4.1. Macro urinalysis                                                                                                            3c                                      -
10.4.2. Rapid reagent tests                                                                                                         3c                                      -
10.4.3. Portable chemical/blood analyzer                                                                                            2b                                      -
10.5. Parenteral Therapy
TR: AFMAN 44-158; Intermediate Care, Pre-Hospital Trauma Life Support
10.5.1. Signs and symptoms of fluid deficiencies                                                                                    C                                       -
10.5.2. Types of fluids utilized to correct fluid deficiencies                                                                      C                                       -
10.5.3. Describe intravenous infusion principles                                                                                    C                                       -
10.6. Patient Disorders
TR: IDMT Protocols, Merck Manual, and Current Medical Diagnosis and Treatment
10.6.1. Identification and Management of
10.6.1.1. Integumentary disorders                                                                                                   C                                       -
10.6.1.2. Eye disorders                                                                                                             C                                       -
10.6.1.3. Ear, nose, and throat disorders                                                                                           C                                       -
10.6.1.4. Respiratory disorders                                                                                                     C                                       -
10.6.1.5. Cardiovascular disorders                                                                                                  C                                       -
10.6.1.6. Gastrointestinal disorders                                                                                                C                                       -
10.6.1.7. Genitourinary disorders                                                                                                   C                                       -
10.6.1.8. Gynecological disorders                                                                                                   C                                       -
10.6.1.9. Neurological disorders                                                                                                    C                                       -
10.6.1.10. Behavioral disorders                                                                                                     B                                       -
10.6.1.11. Substance abuse                                                                                                          B                                       -
10.6.1.12. Orthopedic disorders                                                                                                     C                                       -
10.6.1.13. Endocrine disorders                                                                                                      C                                       -
10.6.1.14. Dental disorders                                                                                                         C                                       -
10.7. Perform Minor Surgical Procedures
TR: AFMAN 13-501; DODI 5210.42R; Langes Current Emergency Treatment; IDMT Protocol
10.7.1. Use of local anesthesia                                                                                                     2b                                      2
10.7.2. Wound closure                                                                                                               2b                                      2
10.7.3. Wound care                                                                                                                  2b                                      -
10.7.4. Toe nail removal                                                                                                             c
10.7.5. I & D of abscess                                                                                                             c
10.8. Population Health Management Concepts                                                                                                                                 -
TR: AFIs 44-170, AFPAM 44-160
10.8.1. Preventive health assessments                                                                                               B                                       -
10.8.2. Health promotion education/resources                                                                                        B                                       -
10.8.3. Suicide awareness/prevention                                                                                                B                                       -
10.8.4. Provide Medical guidance to site commander for                                                                                                                      -
Air Force Fitness Program                                                                                                           B
TR: AFI 36-2905
10.9. Bioenvironmental Services (BES)
TR: AFI 48-145, AFH 10-222; AFOSH Standards 48-9, 48-20, 48-137, AFMAN- 48-155, AFMAN 48-156
10.9.1. Occupational Health
10.9.1.1. Reproductive Health Program                                                                                               B                                       -
10.9.1.2. Laser Eye Protection Prgm                                                                                                 B
10.9.1.3. Medical investigation of occupational                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                    B
accidents/injuries
10.9.2 Shop Surveys
TR: AFMAN 48-154
10.9.2.1. HAZCOM Considerations                                                                                                     B                                       -
10.9.2.2. Physical stresses                                                                                                         B                                       -
10.9.2.3. Case file management                                                                                                      B                                       -
10.9.3. Waste water collection, treatment, and disposal                                                                                                                     -
TR: AFMAN 48-138                                                                                                                    B

10.9.3.1. Waste collection and disposal                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                    B
TR: AFI 10-222
10.9.4.Medical waste collection and disposal
                                                                                                                                    B
TR: AFI 10-246, 48-144




                                                                                          65
                                                                        ATTACHMENT 10
                                                         Independent Duty Medical Technician (4N0X1C) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                         A            B               C             D            E           A             B             C          D
                                                                       Trng         Trng           Trainee       Trainer     Certifier     IDMT           N/A          N/A         QTP
                                                                       Start       Complete        Initials      Initials     Initials     Course                                 Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                  Number
10.9.4.1. Potable Sources
10.9.4.1.1. Perform chlorine residual/pH test                                                                                               3c                                      8
10.9.4.1.2. Perform bacteriological water testing                                                                                           3c                                      8
10.9.4.2. Responsibilities for monitoring swimming                                                                                                                                  -
pools, hot tubs, and natural bathing areas                                                                                                  B
TR: AFOSH Standard 48-114
10.10. Public Health
10.10.1. Principles of epidemiology                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                            B
TR: AFI 48-116
10.10.2. Medical entomology                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                            B
TR: AFI 48-102
10.10.3. Administer Food Safety Program                                                                                                                                             8
TR: AFI 48-116; Food and Drug Administration Food                                                                                           3c
Code
10.10.4. Food Borne Illness Investigation Procedures                                                                                        B
10.10.5. USAF Aeromedical Services Information                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                             -
Management System (ASIMS)
10.10.6. Hearing Conservation Program                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                            B
TR: AFOSH Standards 48-9, 48-19, 48-20
10.10.7. Occupational Health Examination                                                                                                     -                                      -
10.10.8. Pre/Post Deployment Surveillance                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                            B
Requirements (DD Forms 2795/2796/2900)
10.10.9. Inspect Public Gathering Places
TR: AFI 48-116, 48-117
10.10.9.1. Barber/beauty shops                                                                                                              b                                       -
10.10.9.2. Dormitories                                                                                                                      b                                       -
10.10.9.3. Other facilities                                                                                                                 a                                       -
10.10.10. Communicable disease prevention and                                                                                                                                       -
monitoring                                                                                                                                  B
TR: AFH 10-222, AFI 48-120
10.10.11. Medical Intelligence
TR AFPAM 10-219, AFI 10-403, 10-404, Technical Guide 248
10.10.11.1. Vulnerability assessment and site survey                                                                                        B                                       -
10.10.11.2. Safety and vulnerability of local food and                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                            B
water sources
10.10.11.3. Epidemiological risk assessment                                                                                                 B                                       -
10.10.11.4. Local medical capabilities                                                                                                      B                                       -
10.10.11.5. Vector or pest risk assessment                                                                                                  B                                       -
10.10.11.6. Local billeting and public facilities hygiene                                                                                   B                                       -
10.10.11.7. Environmental risk assessment                                                                                                   B                                       -
10.10.11.8. Medical Intelligence Briefing                                                                                                   3c
10.11. Emergency Medicine
10.11.1. Emergency Medicine Considerations
TR: Management of Wilderness & Environmental Emergencies
10.11.1.1. Management of environmental emergencies                                                                                          B                                       -
10.11.1.2. Identification and management of poisonous                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                            B
stings/bites and contact with poisonous plants
10.11.2. Management of Victims of Violent Crimes
TR: AFI 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention/Response; AFOSI Manual 71-124, Crime Scene Handbook; AFI 44-153, Traumatic Stress Response
10.11.2.1. Management of victims of violent crimes                                                                                          B                                       -
10.11.2.2. Management of victims of sexual assault                                                                                          B
10.11.3. Emergency Medicine Procedures
TR: Tintinalli's Emergency Procedures
10.11.3.1. Perform Airway Management
10.11.3.1.1.Advanced Airway Management                                                                                                      3c                                      9
10.11.3.1.2. Needle thoracentesis                                                                                                           3c                                      9
10.11.3.1.3. Cricothyroidotomy                                                                                                              3c                                      9
10.11.3.1.4. Advanced foreign body removal                                                                                                  3c                                      9
10.11.3.1.5. Ventilator                                                                                                                     2b
10.11.3.2. Manage obstetrical emergencies                                                                                                    b                                      -
10.11.3.3. Manage multiple systems trauma patient                                                                                           3c                                      9
10.11.3.4. Perform emergency cardiac care                                                                                                   3c                                      -




                                                                                              66
                                                                 ATTACHMENT 10
                                                  Independent Duty Medical Technician (4N0X1C) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core Task   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                  A            B                 C          D           E           A             B             C           D
                                                                Trng         Trng             Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     IDMT           N/A          N/A         QTP
                                                                Start       Complete          Initials   Initials    Initials    Course                                  Volume
                                                                                                                                                                         Number
10.12. Field Medicine
TR: Emergency War Surgery
10.12.1.Traumatic Stress Response                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                   B
TR: AFI 44-153
10.12.2. Patient movement                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                   B
TR: AFI 41-301
10.12.2.1. CASEVAC                                                                                                                 B
10.12.2.2. MEDEVAC                                                                                                                 B
10.12.2.3. AIR EVAC                                                                                                                B
10.12.2.4. Contract evacuation                                                                                                     B
10.12.3. 9-Line MedEvac Request                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                   B
TR: AFH 32-4014, Vol 4
10.12.4. TRAC2ES                                                                                                                   B
10.12.5. CBRN considerations                                                                                                       B                                       -
10.12.6. Perform field triage                                                                                                      3c                                      -




                                                                                         67
                                                                        ATTACHMENT 11
                                                        Special Operations Command Medics (SEI 455) STS
NOTE 1: Special Operations Command Medics are responsible to maintain appropriate patient care skills (core tasks) and supervisory skills listed in Attachment 2, 3, 4 Section 4.14 and 10
NOTE 2: This attachment applies to all personnel being utilized as Special Operations Command Medics
NOTE 3: This attachment should be used to conduct on-the-job training (OJT) for Special Operations Command Medics. All items have been identified as items that each Special Operations
Command Medic must receive OJT from qualified trainers.
NOTE 4: This attachment will be used to conduct training for Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) medics. Completion of this STS alone does not meet all requirements for SEI 455
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                     2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                                     A           B           C          D          E           A         B        C               D
                                                                                   Trng         Trng     Trainee Trainer Certifier N/A                  N/A     N/A              QTP
                                                                                   Start     Complete Initials Initials         Initials                                       Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                Number
11. SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MEDIC
11.1. Command And Control Functions
TR: AFDs 2-1.6, 2-4.2; AFTTP 3-42.6; USSOCOM Tactical Trauma Protocols/Tactical Medical Emergency Protocol; Tactical Combat Casualty Care Guidelines
11.1.1. Use of OPLANS/Tactics, Techniques and Procedures                                                                                        -                                  -
(TTP)
11.1.2. Recall doctrine, concepts of operations and policies                                                                                    -                                  -
governing SOF/CSAR medical forces
11.2. Pre-deployment
TR: AFI 41-106, AFTTP 3-42.6, AFSOC UTC Allowance Standards USSOCOM Tactical Trauma Protocols/Tactical Medical Emergency Protocol; AFSOC Blood Policy Program; Tactical
Combat Casualty Care Guidelines
11.2.1. Identify proper equipment and supplies                                                                                                  -                                  -
11.2.2. Establish Plans And Preparation Requirements (Missions
Requirements)
11.3. Casualty Evacuation (CASEVAC) Mission
11.3.1. Identify transport considerations                                                                                                       -                                  -
11.3.2. Identify types of casualties                                                                                                            -                                  -
11.3.3. Coalition forces                                                                                                                        -                                  -
11.3.4. High-value targets                                                                                                                      -                                  -
11.3.5. Determine Transport times                                                                                                               -                                  -
11.3.6. Determine forward staging base capabilities                                                                                             -                                  -
11.3.7. Coordinate patient movement through Theater Patient                                                                                     -                                  -
Movement Requirements Center (TPMRC)
11.4. Perform responsibilities of advanced echelon (ADVON) personnel
TR: AFI 10-404, AFTTP 3-42.6; USSOCOM Tactical Trauma Protocols/Tactical Medical Emergency Protocol; Tactical Combat Casualty Care Guidelines
11.4.1. Manage deployed medical assets                                                                                                          -                                  -
11.4.2. Identify deployed tasks                                                                                                                 -                                  -
11.4.3. Establish command and control relationships (Joint, SOF)                                                                                -                                  -
11.4.4. Prepare deployment reports                                                                                                              -                                  -
11.4.5. Prepare CASEVAC mission reports                                                                                                         -                                  -
11.4.6. Prepare casualty reporting                                                                                                              -                                  -
11.5. Casualty Evacuation (CASEVAC) Operations
TR: AFTTP 3-42.6, Special Operations Forces (SOF)/Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) Medical Element Mission Checklist, SOF/CSAR Medical Ele ment CASEVAC Equipment Checklist
11.5.1. Configure platform for CASEVAC
11.5.2. Establish Pre-mission CASEVAC Communications
11.5.3. Determine Aircraft Comm ( ICS Box)                                                                                                      -                                -
11.5.4. Determine On-board medical team comm                                                                                                    -                                -
11.5.5. Coordinate transload comm
11.5.6. Interpret medevac request 9-line                                                                                                        -                                -
11.5.7. Coordinate medical clamshell                                                                                                            -                                -
11.5.8. Secure all equipment safely to aircraft                                                                                                 -                                -
11.5.9. Understand patient positioning considerations                                                                                           -                                -
11.5.10. Use of litter stanchions                                                                                                               -                                -
11.5.11. Utilize A/C electrical system                                                                                                          -                                -
11.6. Pre-flight And Use Specific CASEVAC Equipment
11.6.1. Oxygen supply system                                                                                                                   -                                 -
11.6.2. Ventilator                                                                                                                             -                                 -
11.6.3. Cardiac monitor/defibrillator                                                                                                          -                                 -
11.6.4. ET-C02 monitor                                                                                                                         -
11.6.5. Pulse oximeter                                                                                                                         -                                 -
11.6.6. Suction devices                                                                                                                        -                                 -
11.6.7. Electrical Cable Assembly Set (ECAS)                                                                                                   -                                 -
11.6.8. Vital signs monitor                                                                                                                    -                                 -
11.6.9. Fluid/blood warmer                                                                                                                     -                                 -
11.6.10. Blood refrigerator                                                                                                                    -                                 -
11.6.11. Rescue wrap                                                                                                                           -                                 -
11.6.12. Trauma Kit                                                                                                                            -                                 -




                                                                                           68
                                                                    ATTACHMENT 11
                                                    Special Operations Command Medics (SEI 455) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                                A          B        C           D           E        A        B      C     D            QTP
                                                                              Trng        Trng   Trainee     Trainer    Certifier N/A        N/A    N/A          Volume
                                                                              Start     Complete Initials    Initials    Initials                                Number

11.7. Perform Mission Non-Medical Crew Duties
11.7.1. Fixed wing                                                                                                                  -                             -
11.7.2. Rotary wing                                                                                                                 -                             -
11.7.3. Tilt wing                                                                                                                   -                             -
11.7.4. Ground and in-flight safety procedures                                                                                      -                             -
11.8. Perform Aircraft Emergency Egress
11.8.1. Fixed wing                                                                                                                  -                             -
11.8.2. Rotary wing                                                                                                                 -                             -
11.8.3. Tilt wing                                                                                                                   -                             -
11.9. Trans-load Operations
11.9.1. Receive patients                                                                                                            -                             -
11.9.2. Perform on-and off-loading procedures                                                                                       -                             -
11.9.3. Receive casualty report                                                                                                     -                             -
11.9.4. Reaccomplish rapid triage and casualty marking                                                                              -                             -
11.9.5. Give patient report to on-line medical control                                                                              -                             -
11.10.Operate In-flight CASEVAC
11.10.1. Aircraft intercom system (ICS)                                                                                             -                             -
11.10.2. Intra-medical team communications                                                                                          -                             -
11.10.3. Medical control communications                                                                                             -                             -
11.10.4. Use of night vision goggles                                                                                                -                             -
11.11. Trauma Medicine Skills In Austere Conditions
TR: AFSOC Handbook 48-1; Pre-Hospital Trauma Life Support Manual (Military edition); Mosby’s Paramedic Textbook; USAF EMS Protocol; USSOCOM Tactical Trauma
Protocols/Tactical Medical Emergency Protocol; AFSOC Blood Policy Program; Tactical Combat Casualty Care Guidelines
11.11.1. Define triage principles                                                                                                   -                             -
11.11.2. Manage casualty collection point                                                                                           -                             -
11.11.3. Perform and direct mass casualty operations                                                                                -                             -
11.11.4. Perform medical treatment under low light conditions                                                                       -                             -
11.11.5. Understand and apply fluid resuscitation principals to                                                                     -                             -
burn management
11.11.6. Perform escharotomy                                                                                                        -                             -
11.11.7. Treat hyperthermia                                                                                                         -                             -
11.11.8. Treat hypothermia                                                                                                          -                             -
11.11.9. Treat submersion                                                                                                           -                             -
11.11.10. Administer AFSOC-approved paramedic medications                                                                           -                             -
11.11.11. Insert and maintain chest tube                                                                                            -                             -
11.11.12. Perform surgical cricothyrotomy                                                                                           -                             -
11.11.13. Perform venus cut down                                                                                                    -                             -
11.11.14. Administer volume expanders                                                                                               -                             -
11.11.15. Administer whole blood products                                                                                           -                             -
11.11.16. Perform walking blood bank transfusion                                                                                    -                             -
11.11.17. Administer Tranexamic Acid
11.11.18. Administer Military Acute Concussion Evaluation                                                                           -                             -
(MACE)
11.11.19. Treat acute mountain sickness                                                                                             -                             -
11.11.20. Treat retinal hemorrhage                                                                                                  -                             -
11.11.21. Treat high altitude cerebral edema                                                                                        -                             -
11.11.22. Treat high altitude pulmonary edema                                                                                       -                             -
11.11.23. Set up portable hyperbaric chamber                                                                                        -                             -
11.12. Miscellaneous
11.12.1. Administer HIV Post Exposure Prophylaxis                                                                                   -                             -
11.12.2. Generic Electronic Med Record Program                                                                                      -                             -
11.12.3. Obtain and maintain National Registry Paramedic                                                                            -                             -
11.12.4. Obtain and maintain Tactical Combat Casualty Care                                                                          -                             -
(TCCC) certification
11.12.5. Obtain and maintain Advance Tactical Provider (ATP)
certification IAW USSOCOM Directive 350-29




                                                                                      69
                                                                         ATTACHMENT 11
                                                         Special Operations Command Medics (SEI 455) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                       2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                                      A          B        C          D           E        A        B      C     D            QTP
                                                                                    Trng        Trng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier N/A        N/A    N/A          Volume
                                                                                    Start     Complete Initials   Initials    Initials                                Number

11.13. Aerospace Physiology Care En-Route
TR: Aviation Medicine
11.13.1. Understand and apply atmosphere laws                                                                                            -                             -
11.13.2. Understand respiratory and circulatory physiology at                                                                            -                             -
altitude
11.13.3. Treat hypoxia                                                                                                                   -                             -
11.13.4. Understand hyperventilation and positive pressure                                                                               -                             -
breathing
11.13.5. Understand medical effects of pressure change                                                                                   -                             -
11.13.6. Treat Decompression sickness                                                                                                    -                             -
11.13.7. Understand cabin pressurization effects on patients                                                                             -                             -
11.13.8. Factors affecting tolerance to flight                                                                                           -                             -
11.13.9. Use aircrew emergency oxygen                                                                                                    -                             -
11.13.10. Understand atmospheric pressure changes                                                                                        -                             -
11.13.11. Understand ambient air temperatures effect on patients                                                                         -                             -
11.13.12. Treat airsickness                                                                                                              -                             -
11.13.13. Understand high cabin noise levels effect on patients                                                                          -                             -




                                                                                            70
                                                                   ATTACHMENT 12
                                                Flight and Operational Medical Technician (4N0X1F) STS

NOTE 1: FOMTs are responsible to maintain appropriate patient care skills (core tasks), and supervisory skills listed in attachment 2 of this STS.
NOTE 2: This attachment applies to all personnel who have completed formal training and are currently being utilized as a FOMT.
NOTE 3: Successful completion of B3ALY4N051F 0A1A course is a mandatory requirement for the FOMT specialty.
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                         A        B            C          D        E       A                B            C         D
                                                                       Trng      Trng       Trainee    Trainer Certifier FOMT              N/A          N/A       QTP
                                                                       Start   Complete     Initials   Initials Initials Course                                  Volume
                                                                                                                                                                 Number
12. AEROSPACE MEDICINE
TR: AFIs 48-123/48-149, Knowledge Exchange(Kx)
12.1. Principles
*12.1.1. Mission/responsibilities                                                                                               A
*12.1.2. Aerospace crew positions/duties                                                                                        A
*12.1.3. Flying/Special Operational Duty (SOD) Safety
                                                                                                                                A
program
*12.1.4. Deployment Availability Working Group
                                                                                                                                A
(DAWG)
*12.1.5. Occupational and Environmental Health
                                                                                                                                A
Working Group (OEHWG)
12.2. Information Systems
TR: AFIs 41-210, 41-211/48-123/ASIMS User Guide/PEPP Guide/Kx
*12.2.1. Overview of information Systems                                                                                        A
*12.2.2. Aeromedical Services Information
                                                          5                                                                     b
Management Systems (ASIMS)
*12.2.3. Aeromedical Information Management
                                                                                                                                a
Waiver Tracking System (AIMWTS)
*12.2.4. Physical Examination Processing Program
                                                                                                                                a
(PEPP)
*12.3. Publications
*12.3.1. Waiver Guide
TR: Kx                                                                                                                          B
*12.3.2. Certification and Waiver Authority
                                                                                                                                B
TR: AFI 48-123
*12.3.3. Laser Exposure Guide Book                                                                                              B
*12.3.4. Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
                                                                                                                                A
TR: AFMAN 13-501; DODI 5210.42R
12.4. Human Anatomy and Physiology
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills
12.4.1. Aerospace Physiology
*12.4.1.1. Physics of the atmosphere                                                                                            A
*12.4.1.2. Human factors                                                                                                        A
*12.4.1.3. Hypoxia/hyperventilation                                                                                             A
*12.4.1.4. Decompression Sickness/Hyperbaric
                                                                                                                                A
medicine
*12.4.1.5. Speed and acceleration                                                                                               A
*12.4.1.6. Spatial disorientation                                                                                               A
*12.4.1.7. Effects of Medication                                                                                                A
*12.4.1.8. Aircrew Stresses                                                                                                     A
12.4.2. Oxygen Therapy for Decompression Sickness/Hypoxia
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills/Flight Surgeon Checklist
*12.4.2.1. Apply Venturi mask/CPAP                        5                                                                     3c
12.4.2.2. Aviator’s positive pressure mask                5                                                                     3c
12.5. Outpatient
12.5.1. Administrative Procedures
TR: AFI 41-210
*12.5.1.1. Aeromedical Disposition(AMD)-Care
                                                                                                                                A
outside Flight/Missile Medicine
*12.5.1.2. Workplace Exposure                                                                                                   A
*12.5.1.3. Review daily appts in AHLTA/CHCS for
                                                                                                                                A
proper AMD
*12.5.1.4. Electronic Health Record                                                                                             A




                                                                                    71
                                                                ATTACHMENT 12
                                             Flight and Operational Medical Technician (4N0X1F) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                     A        B          C          D        E       A          B           C        D
                                                                   Trng      Trng     Trainee    Trainer Certifier FOMT        N/A         N/A      QTP
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course                          Volume
                                                                                                                                                   Number
12.6. Create/Maintain Flight/Missile Medicine Records
TR: AFI 41-210; AFMAN 13-501; DODI 5210.42R
*12.6.1. Non-flying                                                                                                  b
*12.6.2. Fly                                                                                                         b
*12.6.3. Special Operations Duty (SOD)                                                                               b
*12.6.4. Missile Operations Duty (MOD)                                                                               b
*12.6.5. Personnel Reliability Program/Presidential
                                                                                                                     b
Support Program
12.7. Prepare And Document
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills for Nursing/AFI 48-123/41-210/ Kx
*12.7.1. SOAPP note                                         5                                                        b
*12.7.2. Care extender protocol                                                                                      b
*12.7.3. SF 507, Continuation Sheet                                                                                  b
*12.7.4. SF 558, Emergency and Treatment Record            5                                                         b
*12.7.5. DD Form Electronic 2766/2766C, Adult
 Preventive and Chronic Care Flowsheet                     5                                                         b
*12.7.6. DD Form 2808, Report of Medical
Examination                                                5                                                         1a
*12.7.7. DD Form 2807 Report of Medical History            5                                                         1a
12.8. Preventive Health Assessment (PHA) for Flyers/SOD/MOD/other Non-Flyers
TR: Kx/ASIMS User guide/AFI 41-210
*12.8.1. ASIMS database                                     5                                                        b
12.8.2. Coordinate with Unit Health Monitors (UHM)                                                                   -
12.8.3. Schedule PHA                                                                                                 -
12.8.4. Run Squadron reports                                                                                         A
12.8.5. Generate AF Form 1042, Medical
                                                                                                                     b
Recommendation for Flying or Special Duty
12.8.6. Notify Squadrons                                                                                             A
12.8.7. Initial Waivers/Renewals/Interim Evaluations                                                                 B
*12.8.8. Conduct medical record reviews                                                                              A
*12.8.9. Military (mobility) unique requirements                                                                     A
*12.8.10. Conduct patient interview                                                                                  1a
*12.8.11. Record medical history                                                                                     1a
12.8.12. Provide primary preventive counseling                                                                        -
12.9. Perform and record visual screening
TR: Kx
*12.9.1. Visual acuities                                                                                            2b
*12.9.2. Phorias                                                                                                    2b
*12.9.3. Depth perception                                                                                           2b
12.9.4. Perform Visual Screening                                                                                    2b
*12.9.4.1. Pseudoisochromatic plates                                                                                 -
12.9.4.2. Cone Contrast Testing (CCT)                                                                               2b
*12.9.4.3. Amsler grid                                                                                              2b
*12.9.4.4. Near Point of convergence                                                                                2b
*12.9.4.5. Confrontation test                                                                                       2b
12.9.5. Tonometry                                                                                                   2b




                                                                               72
                                                                 ATTACHMENT 12
                                              Flight and Operational Medical Technician (4N0X1F) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         2. Core Task 3. Certification For OJT                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                       A        B          C          D        E       A          B           C        D
                                                                     Trng      Trng     Trainee    Trainer Certifier FOMT        N/A         N/A      QTP
                                                                     Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course                          Volume
                                                                                                                                                     Number
12.9.6. Cockpit vision test (near)                                                                                     -
*12.9.7. Cycloplegic refractions                                                                                      A
*12.9.8. Hi-Low Contrast testing (PRK)                                                                                2b
*12.9.9. Red Lens Test                                                                                                2b
12.10. Physical Exams
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills/Kx/AFI 48-123
*12.10.1. Height (standing) and weight                         5                                                      3c
12.10.2. Buttocks-to-knee measurement                                                                                 2b
*12.10.3. Special EKG studies                                                                                         A
*12.10.4. Tracing disposition                                                                                         A
*12.10.5. Perform Reading Aloud Test (RAT)                                                                            2b
12.10.6. Obtain footprints                                                                                            2b
12.10.7. Anthropometric Measurements                                                                                  2b
*12.10.8.Sitting Height                                                                                               2b
*12.10.9. Functional Reach                                                                                            2b
*12.10.10. Joint Service                                                                                              A
*12.10.11. Paliminaries (Navy, USCG, Marine
                                                                                                                       -
Physical Requirement)
*12.10.12. Medical Standards (Navy, USCG, Marine
                                                                                                                       -
Physical Requirement)
12.11. Perform Ambulance/ Emergency Response Vehicle Operations
12.11.1. Flight line operations                                                                                        B
12.11.2. In-flight/ground emergency response                                                                           B
12.11.3. Radio communication                                                                                           b
12.11.4. Perform grid map plotting                                                                                     b
12.12. Manage Mission Essential Tasks and Activities for Line Support (METALS)
TR: Mosby's Nursing Skills/Kx/AFI 48-123
12.12.1. Flying squadron facilities                                                                                    -
12.12.2. Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE)                                                                                -
12.12.3. Flight line                                                                                                   -
12.12.4. Special operational facilities                                                                                -
12.12.5. Alert facilities                                                                                              -
12.12.6. Air traffic control facilities                                                                                -
12.12.7. Squadron and work center visits                                                                               -
12.12.8. Aircrew/SOD contact lens program                                                                              -
*12.12.9. Document Aircrew Chemoprophylactic
                                                                                                                       b
Ground Testing
12.12.9.1 Go/No Go                                                                                                     B
*12.12.10. Flying or Special Operational Duty Waiver
                                                                                                                       B
*12.12.11. Corneal Refractive Registry                                                                                 B
12.13. Aircraft/Missile Mishap Investigation
TR: AFI 91-204 and Flight Surgeon Mishap Checklist/Kx
*12.13.1. Inspect and maintain kits                                                                                    a
*12.13.2. Assist on-scene with Wing Safety and Flight
                                                                                                                       a
Surgeon
*12.13.3. Prepare reports                                                                                              a




                                                                                 73
                                                                ATTACHMENT 12
                                             Flight and Operational Medical Technician (4N0X1F) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       2. Core Task   3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                     A        B          C          D        E       A          B           C        D
                                                                   Trng      Trng     Trainee    Trainer Certifier FOMT        N/A         N/A      QTP
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials Initials Course                          Volume
                                                                                                                                                   Number
12.14. Perform Medical Processing of:
TR: AFI 91-204, 37-138, Table 48-1; 48-123/Kx
*12.14.1. Survivors                                                                                                  a
*12.14.2. Fatalities                                                                                                 a
*12.14.3. Pathological specimens                                                                                     a
*12.14.4. Aeromedical Disposition Determination                                                                      A
*12.14.5. Flying or Special Operational Duty Log (AF
                                                                                                                     A
Form 1041)
*12.14.6. Medical Recommendation for Flying or
                                                                                                                     A
Special Duty (AF Form 1042)
12.14.7. Aeromedical consultation service referrals                                                                  A
12.14.8. ECG library                                                                                                 A
12.15. MEDICAL STANDARDS
TR: AFIs 31-501, 36-2104, 41-210, 48-123; Kx; DOD, 5210.42-R, AFI 10-203
12.15.1. Requirements For Physical Examinations
*12.15.1.1. Determine Physical Exam Requirements                                                                     A
*12.15.1.2. Quality Review of Physical Exam
                                                                                                                     A
Documentation
*12.15.1.3. Flying                                                                                                   A
*12.15.1.4. Unmanned Aircraft System II U                                                                            A
*12.15.1.5. Non-Flying                                                                                               A
*12.15.1.6. Special Operations Duty                                                                                  A
*12.15.1.7. Occupational                                                                                             A
*12.15.1.8. Dental Types and Classifications                                                                         A
*12.15.1.9. Apply medical standards/Using Medical
                                                                                                                     1a
Service Directory
*12.15.1.10. Joint Service Requirements                                                                              A
12.15.1.11. Medical Standards for
                                                                                                                     A
appointment/enlistment/induction
12.15.2. Medical Evaluation Board (MEB) Process
TR: AFI 36-3212
*12.15.2.1. Overview of MEB process                                                                                  A
*12.15.2.2. IDES                                                                                                     A
*12.15.2.3. Deployment Availability Working Group
                                                                                                                     A
(DAWG)
12.15.2.4 Law governing disability evaluation                                                                        A
12.15.2.5 Mandatory examinations                                                                                     A
12.15.3. Disposition
12.15.3.1. Temporary Disability Retirement
                                                                                                                     A
Limitations (TDRL)
12.15.3.2. Assignment Limitation Code (ALC) C                                                                        A
12.15.3.3. Physical Exam Board Liaison Officer
                                                                                                                     A
(PEBLO) responsibilities
12.15.3.4. Record review In Lieu Of (RILO) board
                                                                                                                     A
roles
12.15.3.5. Imminent death processing                                                                                 A




                                                                              74
                                                                      ATTACHMENT 12
                                                   Flight and Operational Medical Technician (4N0X1F) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            2. Core Task   3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                         A          B            C          D           E         A            B            C          D
                                                                        Trng       Trng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier FOMT            N/A          N/A       QTP
                                                                        Start    Complete     Initials   Initials    Initials  Course                               Volume
                                                                                                                                                                    Number
12.15.4. Medical Treatment Record Review/Management
TR: AFI 41-210
*12.15.4.1. Permanent change of station                                                                                          A
12.15.4.2. Security clearance                                                                                                    A
*12.15.4.3. Mobility/deployment                               5                                                                  A
*12.15.4.4. Personnel Reliability program                                                                                        A
*12.15.4.5. Presidential Support Program (PSP)                                                                                   A
12.15.4.6. Retirement/Separation                                                                                                 A
12.15.4.7. Retraining/Special Duty Assignments                                                                                   a
12.15.5. Profile Systems
12.15.5.1. 31/37/81 Roster                                                                                                       A
12.15.5.2. Purpose                                                                                                               A
12.15.5.3. PUHLES                                                                                                                A
12.15.5.4. AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial
Report /Notification of AF Member Qualification                                                                                  A
12.15.5.5. AF 469 Duty Limiting Condition Report                                                                                 A
12.15.5.6. Assignment limitation codes                                                                                           A
12.15.5.7. Preforms Quality Review AF
422/469/ALCC                                                                                                                     A




                                                                                   75
                                                                              ATTACHMENT 13
                                                                 National Registry Paramedic (SEI 456) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  2. Core Task     3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                                                  A          B             C           D            E         A            B            C          D
                                                                                 Trng       Trng        Trainee     Trainer     Certifier    N/A          N/A          N/A       QTP
                                                                                 Start    Complete      Initials    Initials     Initials                                       Volume
                                                                                                                                                                                Number
 13. NATIONAL REGISTERED PARAMEDIC
13.1. Knowledge and understanding of current USAF EMS Protocol
13.1.1.. Assess the need for Airway/Ventilation/Oxygenation Management/Maintenance
 TR: Current Mosby Paramedic Textbook; Medscape e-medicine online; National Emergency Medical Services Education Standards Paramedic Instructional Guidelines
13.1.1.1. Assess the airway
13.2. Perform Airway/Ventilation/Oxygenation Management / Maintenance
 TR: Current Mosby Paramedic Textbook; Medscape e-medicine online; National Emergency Medical Services Education Standards Paramedic Instructional Guidelines
13.2.1. Esophageal airway
13.2.2. Supraglotic airway
13.2.3. BiPAP/CPAP
13.2.4. Chest Decompression - needle
13.2.5. Perform backward upward rightward pressure (BURP)
13.2.6. Cricothyrotomy - needle
13.2.7. Cricothyrotomy - percutaneous
13.2.8. End tidal CO2 monitoring/capnography
13.2.9. End tidal CO2 monitoring/capnomerty
13.2.10. Gastric decompression - NG Tube
13.2.11. Gastric decompression - OG Tube
13.2.12.    Intubation - nasotracheal
13.2.13.    Intubation - orotracheal
13.2.14.    Direct laryngoscopy
13.2.15. Positive End-Expiatory Pressure (PEEP)
13.2.16. Suctioning - tracheobronchial
13.2.17. Maintain/monitor ventilator transport
13.3. Identify the need for cardiovascular and circulatory care.
 TR: Current American Heart Association Emergency Cardio Vascular Care; USAF EMS Pre-Hospital Protocols; National Emergency Medical Services Education Standards
 Paramedic Instructional Guidelines; Mosby Paramedic Textbook
13.3.1. Identify Cardiac Arrhythmias
13.4. Assess the need for cardiovascular and circulatory care.
 TR: Current American Heart Association Emergency Cardio Vascular Care; USAF EMS Pre-Hospital Protocols; National Emergency Medical Services Education Standards
 Paramedic Instructional Guidelines; Mosby Paramedic Textbook
13.4.1. Perform cardiovascular and circulatory care.
13.4.1.1. Multi lead cardiac monitoring (interpret)
13.4.1.2. Single lead cardiac monitoring (interpret)
13.4.1.3. Cardioversion (electrical)
13.4.1.4. Cardioversion (chemical)
13.4.1.5. Manual defibrillation
13.4.1.6. Transcutaneous pacing
13.4.1.7. Vagal maneuvers
13.4.1.8. Monitor internal cardiac pacing
13.4.1.9. Mechanical CPR device
13.5. .Identify the need for emergency medication administration
TR: Current American Heart Association Emergency Cardio Vascular Care; USAF EMS Pre-Hospital Protocols; Mosby Paramedic Textbook; National Emergency Medical Services Education
Standards Paramedic Instructional Guidelines
13.5.1. Determine the need for emergency medication
administration
13.5.1.1. Assess the need for medication administration TR:
Current American Heart Association Emergency Cardio
Vascular Care; USAF EMS Pre-Hospital Protocols; Mosby
Paramedic Textbook; National Emergency Medical Services
Education Standards Paramedic Instructional Guidelines
13.5.1.2. Perform medication administration via
Endotracheal Tube
13.5.1.3. Inhaled - self-administered nitrous oxide
13.5.1.4. Oral medications adult
13.5.1.5. Oral medications peds
13.5.1.6. Subcutaneous injection adult
13.5.1.7. Subcutaneous injection peds
13.5.1.8. Intramuscular injection adult
13.5.1.9. Intramuscular injection peds
13.5.1.10. Prefilled or tubex syringes adult
13.5.1.11. Prefilled or tubex syringes peds


                                                                                             76
                                                                     ATTACHMENT 13
                                                          National Registry Paramedic (SEI 456) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           2. Core Task    3. Certification For OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See Note)

                                                                          A         B            C           D           E          A            B           C          D
                                                                         Trng      Trng       Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     N/A          N/A         N/A        QTP
                                                                         Start   Complete     Initials    Initials    Initials                                        Volume
                                                                                                                                                                      Number

13.5.1.12. Rectal suppository adult
13.5.1.13. Rectal suppository peds
13.5.1.14. Nasal/Oral gastric adult
13.5.1.15. Nasal/Oral gastric peds
13.5.1.16. IO adult
13.5.1.17. IO peds
13.6. Identify the need for IV Fluids Initiation and Maintenance
   TR: Current American Heart Association Emergency Cardio Vascular Care; USAF EMS Pre-Hospital Protocols; Mosby Paramedic Textbook; National Emergency Medical Services
   Education Standards Paramedic Instructional Guidelines
 13.6.1. Identify emergency condition requiring IV fluid
 initiation and maintenance
 13.6.2. Assess the need for IV Fluids Initiation and
 Maintenance
 TR: Current American Heart Association Emergency Cardio
 Vascular Care; USAF EMS Pre-Hospital Protocols; Mosby
 Paramedic Textbook; National Emergency Medical Services
 Education Standards Paramedic Instructional Guidelines
 13.6.3. Perform IV Fluids Initiation and Maintenance
 13.6.4. Access indwelling catheters and implanted central
 IV ports
 13.6.5. Central line (monitor only)
 13.6.6. IO adult
 13.6.7. IO peds
 13.6.8. IV access adult
 13.6.9. IV access peds
 13.6.10. Peripheral IV sites
 13.6.10.1 External jugular
 13.6.10.2. Subclavian
 13.6.11. IV fluids drip/push adult
 13.6.12. IV fluids drip/push peds
 13.6.13. Medicated IV fluids adult
 13.6.14. Medicated IV fluids peds
 13.7. Miscellaneous Skills
TR: Current American Heart Association Emergency Cardio Vascular Care; USAF EMS Pre-Hospital Protocols; Mosby Paramedic Textbook; National Emergency Medical Services Education
Standards Paramedic Instructional Guidelines
 13.7.1. Identify the need for thrombolytic therapy
 13.7.2. Monitor thrombolytic therapy
13.7.3. Maintain/monitor infusion of blood or blood products
 13.7.1. Obtain/maintain Advanced Cardiac Life Support
 (ACLS)
 13.7.1. Obtain/maintain Pediatric Advanced Cardiac Life
 Support (PALS)
 13.7.1. Obtain/maintain Basic Life Support (BLS)




                                                                                     77
SECTION B – COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST

1. Course Objectives for Initial Skills Course. To obtain a copy of a course objective list, contact the AETC
training manager at the 383d Training Squadron.

1.1. Each proficiency coded task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is measured using an
objective. An objective is a written instruction for the students, so they know what is expected of them to
successfully complete training on each task or knowledge item. Each objective is composed of a condition,
behavior, and a standard. The condition is the setting in which the training takes place (type of equipment of
references when required). The behavior is the observable portion of the objective (perform hand washing).
The standard is the level of performance that is measured to ensure the proficiency code level is maintained (to a
70% or with no instructor assists). All objectives use progress checks (PC) or written test (W) or a combination
of both to measure a student’s ability (skill) or knowledge.

1.2. The minimum standard for written examinations is 70%. The standard for performance objectives (skills)
vary and are indicated in the objective and the performance checklist. The instructor documents each student’s
progress during skills evaluations with the use of a checklist. Students must satisfactorily complete all progress
checks prior to taking a written test.

2. Initial Medical Readiness Training. As directed by AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Program
Management, this is provided within the EMRC, conducted at 937th Training Group, JBSA, Camp Bullis, TX.
The EMRC course is conducted within the BMTCP course. Completed training is documented on
computer-generated student report for each BMTCP course graduate. Continuing/on-going medical readiness
training for the individual is the responsibility of each medical facility.

3. Advanced Skills Course. There is currently no advanced course. This area is reserved.

SECTION C – SUPPORT MATERIALS
The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently referenced
areas:

1. Qualification Training Packages (QTP).

1.1. QTPs must be used for training on all items identified in an individual’s STS as a duty position task that
have a designated QTP identified in column 4D of the STS.

1.2. QTPs listed in this section have been developed and are official Air Force publications. All QTPs listed can
be obtained through the Air Force E-Publishing website: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

1.3. To assist in the standardization of training and to eliminate duplication, the QTPs listed in this section must
be used when applicable to an individual’s duty position.

1.4. When identified as applicable to an individual’s duty position, the frequency that training must be
accomplished by using each of the QTPs listed in this section is specified next to each QTP module.

1.5. QTPs have been developed and are listed on the following pages for the following specialties:

1.5.1. Aerospace Medical Service Specialty.

1.5.2. Independent Duty Medical Technician.
                                                        78
1.5.3. Neurodiagnostic Technologist.

1.5.4. Allergy/Immunization Technician.

1.5.4.      Critical Care Technician.

1.5.5.      Gastroenterology Technician.

NOTE: CFM approval is required for all QTPs. MAJCOM coordination is required when requesting
development of new QTPs. POC for QTP development is the 937th Training Group, 383 TRS/XUEA,
JBSA-Fort Sam Houston, TX.
2. Available Aerospace Medical Service Specialty (4N0X1) QTPs (POC: 937 TRG, JBSA- Fort Sam
Houston, TX):
* = RSVP tasks
         Number             Frequency                                     Title
         QTP 4N0X1-Vol 1                   Fundamentals of Nursing Care
         Module 1             every 24     Disinfection Procedures for Equipment
                              months
         Module 2 (a)/(b)     every 24     Orthostatic Vital Signs- Manual Method/Electronic Method
                              months
         Module 3             every 24     Cardiac Monitor/Defibrillator
                              months
         Module 4             every 24     12-lead EKG
                              months
         Module 5             every 24     Life-Threatening Arrhythmias
                              months
         Module 6             every 24     Pulse Oximetry Oxygen Saturation
                              months
         Module 7             every 24     Collect and Label Blood from Venipuncture
                              months
         Module 8             every 24     Test Urine for Sugar, Acetone, Specific Gravity, and Perform
                              months       Hematest
         Module 9             every 24     Perform Finger/Heel Sticks for Blood Sampling
                              months
         Module 10            every 24     Use Blood Glucose Meter
                              months
         Module 11*           every 24     Medication Administration
                              months
         Module 12*           every 24     Intravenous Infusion
                              months
         Module 13            every 24     Blood Administration
                              months
         Module 14            every 24     Tympanometry
                              months
         Module 15*           every 24     Measure and Record Intake and Output
                              months




                                                            79
    Number            Frequenc                                  Title
    QTP 4N0X1-Vol 2   y          Nursing Care of Patients with Special Needs
    Module 1          every 24   Assist with Central Venous Line Insertion and Monitoring
                      months
    Module 2*         every 24   Assist with Chest tube Insertion/Monitor Water Seal Drainage
                      months
    Module 3          every 24   Assist with Arterial Line Insertion
                      months
    Module 4          every 24   Assist with Pulmonary Artery Catheter Insertion and Measurements/
                      months     Cardiac Output Measurements
    Module 5(a)/(b)   every 24   Obtaining Radial Arterial Blood Gas Sample- Percutaneously
                      months
    Module 6*         every 24   Manifold
                                 Administering Local Anesthetic Agents
                      months
    Module 7*         every 24   Wound Closure
                      months
    Module 8*         every 24   Insert/Irrigate/Remove Nasogastric Tube
                      months
    Module 9*         every 24   Establish/Maintain/Remove Closed Urinary Drainage System
                      months
    QTP 4N0X1-Vol 3              Nursing Care of Patients in Emergency Situations
    Module 1          every 24   Field Triage
                      months
    Module 2          every 24   Set-up Equipment for Cardioversion/Defibrillation/Pacemaker
                      months
    Module 3          every 24   Irrigate Eyes
                      months
    Module 4*         every 24   Apply Simple Cast/Splint, Trim/Petal, Bivalve, and Remove Cast
                      months
    Module 5*         every 24   Emergency Medication Administration
                      months
    QTP 4N0X1-Vol 4              Nursing Care in the Outpatient Clinic
    Module 1          every 24   Perform Pseudofolliculitis Barbae (PFB) Treatments
                      months
    Module 2          every 24   Perform Wart Clinic Procedures
                      months

3. Available Independent Duty Medical Technician (4N0X1C) QTPs (POC: 937 TRG, JBSA-Fort Sam
Houston, TX): Note: QTPs are utilized for initial and refresher IDMT training.

    Number            Frequenc   Title
  QTP 4N0X1C-Vol 5    y          Site Administration
    Module 1          every 12   Personnel Reliability
                      months
  QTP 4N0X1C-Vol 6               History and Physical
    Module 1          every 12   Obtain and Record Medical History
                      months
    Module 2          every 12   Perform Physical Examinations
                      months
  QTP 4N0X1C-Vol 7               Medical Laboratory Procedures
    Module 1          every 12   Perform Macroscopic Urinalysis
                      months
  QTP 4N0X1C-Vol 8               Bioenvironmental and Public Health Procedures
    Module 1          every 12   Perform Chlorine Residual/pH Test
                      months
    Module 2          every 12   Perform Bacteriological Water Testing
                      months
                                                   80
     Module 3           every 12     Conduct Food Safety Inspections
                        months
  QTP 4N0X1C-Vol 9                   Emergency Medicine Procedures
    Module 1            every 12     Airway Management
                        months
     Module 2           every 12     Management of the Multiple System Trauma Patient
                        months
     Module 3           every 12     Emergency Cardiac Care; Administer Medications
                        months

4. Available Neurodiagnostic Technologist (4N0X1B) QTPs (POC: Neurodiagnostic Technologist Program,
JBSA-Fort Sam Houston, TX.):

    Number              Frequenc     Title
  QTP 4N0X1B-Vol 10     y            Neurology Specialty
    Module 1            every 24     Routine Electroencephalogram
                        months
     Module 2           every 24     Visual Evoked Response Testing
                        months
     Module 3           every 24     Auditory Evoked Response Testing
                        months
     Module 4           every 24     Somatosensory Evoked Response Testing (upper extremity)
                        months
     Module 5           every 24     Somatosensory Evoked Response Testing (lower extremity)
                        months
5. Available Allergy/Immunization Technician SEI 453 QTPs (POC: Allergy/Immunization Consultant):

    Number                Frequenc                                     Title
   QTP 4N0X1-Vol 11       y            Allergy Specialty SEI 453
    Module 1              every 24     Principles of Allergy
                          months
     Module 2             every 24     Type 1 Hypersensitivity Skin Testing; Intradermal and Prick
                          months
     Module 3             every 24     Pulmonary Function Testing
                          months
     Module 4             every 24     Obtaining and Staining Nasal Smears
                          months
     Module 5             every 24     Administration and Management of Immunotherapy Injections
                          months
     Module 6             every 24     Mixing of Serial 10 Fold Dilutions
                          months
     Module 7             every 24     Type 4 Hypersensitivity Skin Testing
                          months
     Module 8             every 24     Patient Education Allergy Patient
                          months
    Number                Frequenc     Title
   QTP 4N0X1-Vol 12       y            Immunization Specialty
    Module 1              every 24     Principles of Active and Passive Immunity
                          months
     Module 2             every 24     Active Duty Immunizations
                          months
     Module 3             every 24     Pediatric Immunizations
                          months
     Module 4             every 24     Management of Adverse Reactions Following Immunizations
                          months

                                                      81
6.    Available Critical Care Technician SEI 487 QTPs (POC: Critical Care Consultant):
      Number               Frequenc                                  Title
     QTP 4N0X1-Vol 13      y            Critical Care
      Module 1             every 24     Obtaining Ankle Brachial Index
                           months
      Module 2             every 24     Performing Transurethral Bladder Pressures
                           months
      Module 3             every 24     Set-Up and Assist With Diagnostic Peritoneal Lavage
                           months
      Module 4             every 24     Assisting with Ice-Water Caloric Testing
                           months
      Module 5             every 24     Assist with Ventriculostomy Placement
                           months
      Module 6             every 24     Fiber-Optic Intracranial Pressure Monitoring
                           months
      Module 7             every 24     Synchronized Cardioversion
                           months
      Module 8             every 24     Set-Up and Assist with Transcutaneous Pacing
                           months
      Module 9             every 24     Set-Up and assist with Transvenous Pacing
                           months
      Module 10            every 24     Assist with Intraaortic Balloon Pump Monitoring
                           months
      Module 11            every 24     Drawing Mixed Venous Blood Samples
                           months
      Module 12            every 24     Set-Up and Assist with Intubation/Extubation
                           months
      Module 13            every 24     Endotracheal/Tracheostomy Suctioning
                           months
      Module 14            every 24     Monitor Patient on Mechanical Ventilation
                           months
      Module 15            every 24     Assist with Percutaneous (Bedside) Tracheostomy Placement
                           months
      Module 16            every 24     Set-Up and Assist with Pericardiocentesis
                           months
      Module 17            every 24     Set-Up and Assist with Paracentesis
                           months
      Module 18            every 24     Set-Up and Assist with Lumbar Puncture
                           months
      Module 19            every 24     Set-Up and Assist with Esophagogastric Tamponade Tube
                           months       Placement
      Module 20            every 24     Set-Up and Assist with Continuous Tonometric Gastric Sump
                           months       Placement/Operation
      Module 21            every 24     Hemodynamics Waveform Recognition
                           months




                                                        82
7.     Available Gastroenterology Technician (4N0X1) QTPs (POC: JBSA-Fort Sam Houston, TX):
        Number               Frequenc                                    Title
       QTP 4N0X1-Vol 14      y              Gastroenterology
        Module 1             every 24       Assisting with Colonoscopy/Assist with Hot Biopsy or Snare
                             months         Polypectomy
        Module 2             every 24       Assist with Rigid Sigmoidoscopy/Assist with Flexible
                             months         Sigmoidoscopy
        Module 3             every 24       Performing Manual Precleaning of Endoscope
                             months
        Module 4             every 24       Assist with Upper Endoscopy Exam (EGD)
                             months
        Module 5             every 24       Perform Cold Sterilization of Endoscope/Perform Mechanical
                             months         Sterilization of Endoscope (Steris II Processor) /Olympus/ETC

SECTION D – TRAINING COURSE INDEX
1. Resident Courses.
1.1. Refer to the Education and Training Announcements (ETCA), https://etca.randolph.af.mil, for
complete information on the courses listed in this section.
1.2.      Resident courses applicable to AFSC 4N0XX.
         Course Number                            Course Title                                 Location
     L8AQJ4N031 01AA        Basic Medical Technician Corpsman Program               Fort Sam Houston, TX
     AEIQ AE                (BMTCP) Evacuation Initial Qualification
                            Aeromedical                                             Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
     L3ALJ4N051C00AB        Independent Duty Medical Technician (IDMT)              Fort Sam Houston, TX
     L5ABO4N031 02AA        Aerospace Medical Service Apprentice – Phase II         Designated MTFs
     L9AZA4N051 00AA        Allergy/Immunization Technician                         Fort Sam Houston, TX
     J5ALN4N031B00AA        Neurology Apprentice                                    Fort Sam Houston, TX
     B3AZYBLMD XXXX         Survival Evasion Resistance and Escape (B)              Fairchild, WA
     B3AZY4F0X1 0A1A        Hearing Conservation Certification (ARC only)           Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
     B3AZY4F0X1 0R1A        Hearing Conservation Recertification (ARC only)         Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
     B3ABY4N0X1 0A0A        Aeromedical Evacuation Technician (AET) (Full           Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
     B3ALY4N051F 0A1A       Course)
                            Flight and Operational Medicine Technician (FOMT)       Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
     0A1A
     B3AZY4N0XC   0A1A      IDMT, Flight and Operational Medicine Workshop          Wright-Patterson AFB, OH

NOTE: Reference the ETCA for current course numbers.
2.      Career Development Courses (CDC).

2.1. Refer to the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) catalog,
http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/, for complete information on the courses listed in this section.

2.2.      CDCs applicable to AFSC 4N0XX:
            Course Number                             Course Title
    CDC 4N051A                          Aerospace Medical Service Journeyman
    CDC 4N051B                          Aerospace Medical Service Journeyman
    CDC 4N071                           Aerospace Medical Service Craftsman
NOTE: Successful completion of CDC 4N051A is mandatory before enrolling in CDC 4N051B.




                                                            83
SECTION E – MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

1.     Air Force Reserve.
1.1. Purpose. This section applies to all Aerospace Medical Services specialty personnel assigned to all
Air Force Reserve medical units.

1.2.    Seasoning Training Program (STP) requirements.

1.2.1. Upon completion of the BMTCP Phase I and Aerospace Medical Service Apprentice (AMSA) Phase
II courses, all Aerospace Medical Service apprentices (non-prior service and cross-trainees) may be assigned
to an active duty or civilian hospital for 90 days to acquire proficiency in performing core tasks for the 5-skill
level.

1.2.2. To ensure continuity between resident and clinical training, the apprentice will forward a copy of
his/her technical school certificate to his/her Reserve unit of assignment as soon as possible. The Reserve
unit of assignment will then initiate upgrade action using AF Form 2096, to award the 3-skill level and enter
the apprentice in the appropriate training status code (TSC) “B” or “F.”
1.2.3. STP Process. The possibility for a member to receive training from another unit besides his/her
unit of assignment does exist. Therefore, we will refer to the units as home station or TDY location.

1.2.3.1.     Home Station:

1.2.3.1.1. Will validate training capability (equipment/trainer) and capacity by verifying a MTP and MTL
are available for a qualified trainer and certifier throughout the duration of the STP.

1.2.3.1.2. Ensure that milestones have been established and are followed and briefed to the trainee along
with expectations upon entry to the program.

1.2.3.1.3.    Validate applicant’s eligibility prior to submission for approval.

1.2.3.1.4.     Establish training record for applicant.

1.2.3.1.5.    Have member sign the STP statement of understanding.

1.2.3.1.6.    Forward a copy of the member’s STP orders to the Base/Wing Training Office.

1.2.3.1.7. Contact TDY location and provide them with the member’s contact information and appropriate
personnel records.

1.2.3.1.8. Supervisors will make contact with the member at least monthly and document training in the
training record.

1.2.3.1.9.     Amend STP orders if member is not progressing satisfactorily.

1.2.3.1.10. Commander is the only person authorized to sign Conditional Release and Break-in-Training
from the STP.

1.2.3.1.11.    Frequent breaks in STP may result in the continuation of the program being unit funded.
                                                          84
1.2.3.1.12. Base Training Office will be immediately notified of each break in training. NOTE: This could
result in repayment by the member if not accomplished immediately.
1.2.3.1.13. Unit Training Manager (UTM) will show STP progress on the monthly Status of Training to
include number of those participating and amount of days in program, percentage of tasks completed, and
those who have incurred a break in training.
1.2.3.2.      TDY Location:
1.2.3.2.1. Will validate training capability (equipment) and capacity by verifying a MTP. The MTP and
MTL are available for a qualified trainer and certifier throughout the duration of the STP.
1.2.3.2.2.     In-process the member as an augmentee to their unit.
1.2.3.2.3.     Verify member has STP statement of understanding and orders.
1.2.3.2.4.     Develop a tracking system to monitor the member’s progress and report to home station.
1.2.3.2.5.     Maintain up to date emergency contact information on the member.
1.4. Occupational Audio Testing. 4N0XXs assigned to physical exams packages at ARC units are
authorized to conduct audio testing. These 4N0XXs will complete, maintain, and display certification in
hearing conservation by attending the appropriate resident courses (B3AZY4F0X1 0A1A5 or B3AZY4F0X1
0R1A).
1.5. Technical school for AFRC 4N011 can be waived with the proof of NREMT and a nursing license
(Registered Nurse or Licensed Practical Nurse/Licensed Vocational Nurse). Waiver packages will be
submitted IAW AFRC waiver process. The waiver authority is AFRC MFM, in coordination with the
CFM.
1.6.     OPR: AFRC/SGM, 135 Page Road, Robins AFB, GA 31098, DSN: 497-1893.
2. Air National Guard (ANG).
2.1. Purpose. This section applies to all Aerospace Medical Service specialty personnel assigned to all
Air National Guard units.
2.2.       Proficiency Training.
2.2.1. Upon completion of the BMTCP, all AMSAs will be evaluated by their medical unit commander to
determine the need for proficiency training requirements. ANG 4N031s are awarded 30-60 days to obtain
proficiency training.
2.2.2.      Types of proficiency training:
2.2.2.1. Seasoning Training. Upon completion of Phase I and II, seasoning training provides unit or
equipment-specific training not taught at formal training locations or for ANG personnel who are not pursuing
a civilian medical-related occupation.
2.2.2.2. Phase III Training. Upon completion of Phase I and II (non-prior service and cross-trainees),
4N031s assigned to a unit that does not have the capability or accessibility to any facilities by which 4N031
would acquire skill proficiency verification for 5-skill level upgrade may utilize this training.
2.2.3. Proficiency training must be accomplished at an active duty treatment facility or an approved civilian
facility. During Seasoning Training/Phase III, the member will be assigned to an active duty/civilian
supervisor who will ensure that the appropriate experiences and supervision is provided to assist the member
achieve the required proficiencies.



                                                         85
2.2.4. Proficiency training must be accomplished immediately following graduation from technical school
(Phase I & II) consecutively without interruption for weekends or holidays. N O T E :         Members are only
approved to utilize a single type of proficiency training after graduation from Phase I & II.
2.2.5.     The ANG 4N FM may approve, on a case-by-case basis, 30 additional days for proficiency training.
2.2.6. To ensure between resident and clinical training, the apprentice will forward a copy of his/her technical
school certificate (AF Form 1256) to their unit of assignment. The ANG unit will then initiate upgrade action
using AF Form 2096 to award the 3-skill level and enter the apprentice in the appropriate TSC “B” or “F.”
2.3.     NREMT Certification.
2.3.1.     All ANG 4N0XX personnel (E-1 thru E-8) will maintain NREMT.
2.3.1.1.    Individuals who hold NRP certification meet the intent of the NREMT.
2.3.1.2.    ANG/SGA will grant waivers on a case-by-case basis.
2.3.1.3. Occupational Audio Testing. 4N0XXs assigned to physical exams packages at ARC units are
authorized to conduct audio testing. These 4N0XXs will complete and maintain certification in hearing
conservation by attending the appropriate AFMC courses (B3AZY4F0X1 005 or B3AZY4E4F).
2.4. OPR. ANGRC/SGA, Conaway Hall 3500 Fetchet Ave., Andrews AFB, MD, 20762-5157, DSN
278-8585.
2.5.     ANG 4N0X1s assigned to MDG or Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron.


SECTION F – DOCUMENTATION OF TRAINING

Part 1: Air Force Training Record (AFTR)

1. AFTR is an enterprise-wide internet application designed to streamline and standardize training
management by consistently applying information from AFI 36-2201. It has been mandated for use by all
enlisted career fields within the AFMS to document all training actions and competency-related issues.
2. AFTR components managed by the supervisor are:
2.1. Master Task List (MTL). The MTL is a comprehensive list identifying all day-to-day mission
requirements, core tasks, in-garrison and contingency tasks, and additional duties performed by work center
personnel. The MTL consists of the current STS, AF Form 623 Parts II and III, AF Forms 797 and 1098
tasks, and tasks required to meet deployment and/or UTC requirements.
2.2. Master Training Plan (MTP). The MTP employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work
center job requirements by using an MTL and serves as a guide for supervisors, trainers, and certifiers to
ensure that personnel are trained in an effective and efficient manner to meet training and mission
requirements. The MTP will include when tasks on the MTL should be trained (priority/milestones), how
they will be trained (resources/method), and approximately how long it should take to train on individual
tasks or set of tasks. Refer to AFI 36-2201 for guidance in developing the MTP.
2.3. Duty Task List (DTL). The DTL is a list of all tasks required for a given duty position. The
supervisor creates the DTL by selecting tasks from the MTL.
2.4. Training Record. All training is documented in the training record by way of AFTR. This is the
electronic version of the former Enlisted Training and Competency Folder. The training record is made up
of the AF Form 623 Parts I, II and III; AF Forms 623a, 797, 803 and 1098; and the Job Qualification Standard
(JQS). Refer to AFI 36-2201 for guidance in documenting training on the various forms contained within

                                                        86
the training record. NOTE: All enlisted personnel (CMSgt and below) with a medical AFSC will have an
active training record within AFTR.

3. AFTR provides the capability to upload training-related documents into an training record. The
following documents (as applicable) will be uploaded into every 4N0X1X training record:

3.1. Current NREMT card (for SMSgt and below and CMSgt assigned to 4N0 positions on standard UTCs).

3.2. Current Basic Life Support Card.

3.3. AF Form 2096.

3.4. CDC Answer Score Sheets, if enrolled in CDCs. (Maintain until completion of UGT).

3.5. IDMT (4N0X1C) training documents that will be uploaded:

3.5.1. Current IDMT certification letter signed by the MTF SGD/SGH.

3.5.2. Completed IDMT Initial Orientation/Certification. [Attachment 5 from IDMT User Guide located on
the Knowledge Exchange (Kx)].

3.5.3. Most recent IDMT Sustainment Training Documentation. (Attachment 6 from IDMT User Guide
located on the Kx or AF Form 1098 overprint).

3.6. Aeromedical Evacuation Technicians (X4N0X1) training documents that be uploaded:

3.6.1. Most recent AF Form 4023.

3.6.2. Most recent AF Form 4024.

3.6.3. Most recent AF Form 4025.

4. Guidance for AFMS-required training record documentation also includes (but is not limited to): AFI
41-106, AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management; AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations; and AFI 46-101,
Nursing Services and Operations.
Part 2: Work Center Training Binder
5. Initial (work center orientation/supervisor initial evaluation) and on-going (competency verification)
training is vital to the successful mission of any organization. To ensure all initial and on-going work center
training meets required standards, each work center will maintain a training binder (electronic or hard copy)
that is accessible by all work center personnel. This training binder will be set up in the following order:
5.1. Work center description. This includes daily work center mission, responsibilities, and any age-range
of patients cared for in this work center.

5.2. Work center training monitor appointment letter identifying primary, alternate, and their roles and
responsibilities.
5.3. Roster identifying work center trainer(s)/certifier(s).

                                                         87
5.4. Job description/performance standards for each work center duty position.
5.5. Current CFETP and associated change(s) as found on Air Force E-Publishing for each AFSC assigned
to the work center. NOTE: It may be helpful to create/maintain a training binder for each AFSC.

5.6. Copy of the MTP Schedule, as found in AFTR, for each AFSC assigned to the work center. This will
include the specialty training standard, 797s, 1098s, 623 II, and 623 III.
5.7. Copies of all QTPs and/or ISD checklist(s) used during orientation and/or location(s) of any training
plans/evaluation tools used to validate trainee qualifications.
5.8. Work center orientation checklist. In addition to minimum requirements stated in AFI 36-2201, include
timelines (milestones) for each task identified.
5.9. AF Form 623a sample entry of supervisor initial evaluation of trainee qualifications. Minimum
information required in statement can be found in AFI 36-2201. This evaluation must also include full review
of the MTP for trainee’s duty position, revalidation of qualification(s) and timelines (milestones) for items that
require further validation and/or training.
5.10. AF Form 623a sample entry of annual job description/performance standards review.
5.11. Training record documentation examples can be found in AFTR.




                                                         88
