DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                      CFETP 2A6X6
Headquarters US Air Force                                                          Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                    01 September 2012




                                  AFSC 2A6X6

            AIRCRAFT ELECTRICAL AND
            ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS




             CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
               AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.
This page intentionally left blank
                            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                          AIRCRAFT ELECTRICAL & ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS
                                           AFSC 2A6X6
Table of Contents
PART I                                                                  Page #
Preface                                                                 2
Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                           3

Section A--General Information                                          5
         Purpose of the CFETP
         Use of the CFETP
         Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Progression and Information                           6
         Specialty Description
         Skill/Career Progression
         Training Decisions
         Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
         Career Field Path

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements                            12
         Purpose
         Training Requirements

Section D--Resource Constraints                                         15
         Purpose
         Apprentice Level Training
         Journeyman Level Training
         Craftsman Level Training

Section E. - Transitional Training Guide                                15

PART II
Section A, Course Objective List                                        16
         Measurement
         Standard
         Proficiency Level
         Course Objective List

Section B, Support Material                                             16

Section C, Training Course Index                                        16
         Purpose
         Air Force In-Resident Courses
         AU A4/6 http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/
         Exportable Courses
         Training Detachment (TD) Courses

Section D, MAJCOM Unique Requirements                                   20
         MAJCOM Courses

Section E, Specialty Training Standard (STS)                            21
         Implementation
         Purpose
         Recommendations

OPR: 364 TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ USAF/A4LF (CMSgt Michael S. Healy)
Supersedes: CFETP2A6X6, 1 October 2010
Pages: 336



                                                      1
                     CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
             AIRCRAFT ELECTRICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS SPECIALTY
                                    AFSC 2A6X6

PART I

PREFACE

1. The Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training document
that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task
requirements for 2A6X6, Aircraft Electrical and Environmental Systems Specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and instills rigor in all aspects of career field training. This CFETP
supersedes 2A6X6 CFETP, 1 October 2010.

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage, and control training.

   2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains how
   everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
   responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty
   qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints to
   accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition
   training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

   2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training standards
   supervisors will use to determine if airmen have satisfied training requirements. Section B identifies
   available support materials, such as Qualification Training Package (QTP), which may be developed to
   support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training course index that supervisors can use to
   determine if resources are available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
   courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine
   additional training required for the associated qualification needs. Section E identifies the Specialty
   Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training; Air Education
   and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task and correspondence course
   requirements. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training
   commensurate with the overall goals of this plan. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
   and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training; Air Education and Training Command
   (AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task and correspondence course requirements.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and
efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to train today’s work force for
tomorrow’s jobs.




                                                          2
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training. Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in their Air Force Specialty
(AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected
career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular job
type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications. The tasks of AFJQS are
common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose document
covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical growth plan that
includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication,
and to ensure this training is budget defensible.

Continuation Training. This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements and has an
emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum qualification
requirements within an Air Force Specialty regardless of duty position. Only a percentage of critical tasks for
each system are listed as mandatory core tasks. This gives units needed flexibility to manage their workforce
training. Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not
available, but must be accomplished when capability becomes available.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and
respective standards provided to achieve a 3-level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in
conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Training Development, Delivery and
Evaluation.

Course Training Standard and description (CTS). Develop a CTS for all courses not governed by an STS
including specialized training packages and Type 6 courses. CTSs identify the training and level of proficiency
to be provided in a specific course. The document serves as a contract between AETC and its customers.
Optional supplemental training requirements are identified in CTSs. A CTS is not required for courses
programmed to be taught less than 1 year and for orientation, refresher, seminar, and symposium courses that
are 10 academic days or fewer in length. A CTS can be developed using task or knowledge statements with
proficiency codes or behavioral statements which describe training requirements without the use of proficiency
codes.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a training detachment
(TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.



                                                        3
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing, validating, and
reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge and skills essential for
successful job performance.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of
tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to certify
personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a
specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is
designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional course designed for use at the unit to qualify or aid
qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer based, or in
other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or equipment that
precludes desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force Specialty in terms
of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know on the job. It serves as a contract
between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are
taught in formal schools, Career Development Courses, and exportable courses.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job, field
training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training. A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and CDCs required for award
of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and Training Pipeline
Manager, of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs),
and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.




                                                        4
SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors, and
trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training program. This plan outlines the
training that individuals in AFSC 2A6X6 should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their
career. This CFETP identifies initial skill, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial
skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon
retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is conducted by AETC at Sheppard
AFB, TX. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill levels. Qualification training
is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This
training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for
selected airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:

   1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training program.
   Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual’s career.

   1.2. Identifies tasks and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
   recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

   1.3. Lists training courses that are available in the specialty and identifies sources of training, and the
   training delivery method.

   1.4. Identifies major resource constraints, which impact full implementation of the desired career field
   training process.

   1.5. Identifies Reserve and ANG training constraints by identifying operational core tasks.

2. Use of the CFETP. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

   2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, Training Detachment
   (TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of
   the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining the
   resources needed to provide the identified training.

   2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and
   proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy these
   identified requirements. MAJCOM developed training, to support this AFSC, must be identified for
   inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available training resources.

   2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of
   courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.




                                                         5
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The AETC training manager for
AFSC 2A6X6 will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC and MFM to ensure currency and
accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on
the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions.

   4.1. Specialty Summary. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), Part I. Performs
   and supervises integrated aircraft electrical and environmental (E&E) functions and activities.
   Troubleshoots, inspects, removes, installs, repairs, modifies, overhauls, and operates integrated E&E
   systems, components, and associated support equipment. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 160200.
   https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd

   4.2. Duties and Responsibilities: Refer to AFECD.
   https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd

       4.2.1. Aircraft Electrical and Environmental Systems Apprentice and Journeyman:

               4.2.1.1. Inspects, troubleshoots, and maintains integrated aircraft E&E systems, subsystems,
               components, wiring, and associated test equipment. E&E on-equipment systems include direct
               and alternating current; gas turbine compressors and auxiliary power units; landing gear, anti-
               skid, and nose wheel steering; electronic engine control, ignition, and starting; lighting; master
               caution and warning; take-off warning; flight control; cargo door and cargo delivery equipment;
               non-electro static application (NESA) windows; anti-icing; fire and overheat warning; fire
               extinguishing and suppression; fuel control; liquid cooling; air conditioning, bleed air, cabin
               pressurization, and auxiliary pressurization; oxygen; and aircraft utility systems.

               4.2.1.2. Performs off-equipment maintenance on E&E system components and associated test
               equipment. Included are control, protection, caution, and warning panels; lighting equipment;
               frequency and load controls; anti-icing controllers; inverters; voltage regulators; nose wheel
               steering and anti-skid amplifiers; generators and integrated drive generators; actuators, relays,
               motors, and valves; lighting equipment; fire and overheat panels; fire extinguishing equipment;
               aircraft batteries; aircraft oxygen system components and special equipment testers. Performs
               cryogenic maintenance on mobile aircraft servicing units. Maintains, repairs, and fabricates
               electrical wiring, harnesses, and connectors. Uses electrical, electronic, pneumatic, and other test
               and support equipment. Maintains compressed gas equipment.

               4.2.1.3. Inspects and evaluates aircraft E&E maintenance activities. Determines operational
               status of assigned assets. Interprets inspection findings and determines corrective actions.
               Ensures compliance with technical publications and directives. Records pertinent data on
               equipment maintenance data collection (MDC) forms and/or enters data into automated
               maintenance data systems. Handles, labels, and disposes of hazardous materials and waste
               according to local, state, federal, and international environmental standards.

       4.2.2. Aircraft Electrical and Environmental Systems Craftsman: Inspects, analyzes, troubleshoots,
       and maintains aircraft E&E systems, associated components, subsystems, and test equipment. Advises



                                                          6
       on problems operating and maintaining aircraft E&E systems, associated electronic components,
       subsystems, and test equipment. Solves maintenance problems using wiring diagrams, schematic
       diagrams, and technical publications by analyzing operating characteristics of E&E systems.
       Determines proper maintenance procedures to repair and return systems and components to maximum
       efficiency. Diagnoses malfunctions and recommends corrective actions. Checks installed and repaired
       components to ensure compliance with technical publications and directives. Evaluates requirements
       and prepares quality deficiency reports. Supervises and evaluates job performance and maintenance
       techniques used to interpret, operate, troubleshoot, remove, repair, service, overhaul, and install aircraft
       E&E systems and components. Provides training and task certification for skill level advancement.
       Ensures compliance with published safety guidelines. Records pertinent data on equipment maintenance
       data collection (MDC) forms and/or enters data into automated maintenance data systems. Ensures
       hazardous materials and waste are handled, stored, and disposed of according to local, state, federal,
       and international environmental standards.

       4.2.3. Maintenance Superintendent: Manages maintenance and staff functions on aircraft E&E,
       hydraulic, fuel, and aircrew egress systems. Interprets and evaluates directives and publications,
       inspection findings, records, and reports and recommends corrective actions. Determines operational
       status and evaluates operational effectiveness of aircraft and associated systems. Inspects and evaluates
       maintenance activities and resolves problems. Interprets and establishes safety and training guidelines.
       Plans, organizes, and directs troubleshooting and repair activities of maintenance personnel. Establishes
       priorities for completion of maintenance tasks and provides assistance in solving maintenance, supply,
       and personnel problems. Performs supervisory inspections of, and directs maintenance actions on
       aircraft systems and components. Evaluates aircraft and system failures to determine need to submit
       quality deficiency reports. Controls resources, funds, and cost management. Manages handling, storing,
       and disposing of hazardous materials and waste according to local, state, federal, and international
       environmental standards.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective
training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable
training at appropriate points in their career.

   5.1. Apprentice (3-level): Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to
   enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the Career Development Course, Task Qualification
   Training, and available exportable courses for continued advancement. Once task certified, a trainee may
   perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for appointment as unit trainers after
   completion of a formal trainer course.

   5.2. Journeyman (5-level): Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into continuation
   training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and skill in troubleshooting and
   solving more complex problems. Five-levels may be assigned job positions such as quality assurance and
   various staff positions. After having 48 months in the Air Force, 5-levels will attend Airman Leadership
   School (ALS) to enhance their Professional Military Education (PME). Five-levels will be considered for
   appointment as unit trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion
   testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a Community College of the Air Force
   (CCAF) degree.




                                                        7
   5.3. Craftsman (7-level): A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions
   such as shift leader, expediter, section chief, and task certifier. They may also be assigned to work in staff
   positions. Craftsmen should take courses to obtain added knowledge on management of resources and
   personnel. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is highly encouraged.
   In addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals will complete the Noncommissioned Officer Academy.

   5.4. Superintendent (9-level): A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief, production
   supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources,
   and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education. Individuals promoted to
   SMSgt will complete the Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy. Additional higher education and
   completion of courses outside their career AFSC are also recommended.

6. Training Decisions: The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the
entire spectrum of training requirements for the Aircraft E&E Systems Career Field. The spectrum includes a
strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop
affordable training, eliminate duplication, and prevent a fragmented approach to training. Training decisions
were made by MAJCOM Functional Managers and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) at the career field
Utilization and Training Workshop held at Sheppard AFB, 5-9 December 2011.

   6.1. Proficiency Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements, which were not taught
   through initial skills or upgrade training, were assigned to continuation training. The purpose of the
   continuation training program is to provide additional training exceeding minimum upgrade training
   requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions. MAJCOMSs must ensure individuals in
   Aircraft E&E Systems career field receive the necessary training at the appropriate point in their career.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF offers and awards job-related associate in applied
science degrees and other academic credentials that enhance mission readiness, contribute to recruiting, assist in
retention and support the career transitions of Air Force enlisted members. The college works with Air Force
training centers, regional accrediting agencies, and hundreds of cooperating civilian colleges and universities.
Since the technical nature of most Air Force courses places them on a level with college study, Airmen earn
fully recognized college credits for most of what they learn in formal coursework and on-the-job training.
Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to
obtain an Aviation Maintenance Technology Associates Degree in Applied Science. In addition to its associate
degree program, CCAF offers the following:

   7.1. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) Certification. Air
   Force aircraft maintenance technicians are eligible to pursue FAA A&P certification based on training and
   experience in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulation Part 65. The DoD established the Joint Service
   Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification Council (JSAMTCC) to standardize the eligibility and
   certification process for the military and provide direction and resources necessary to fill the gaps within
   military training and experience. Completing the Air Force A&P Certification Program, managed by
   CCAF, will fill training and experience gaps, ensuring FAA eligibility. The program consists of three Air
   University Online A&P Specialized Courses, OJT and experience requirements contained in a Qualification
   Training Package (QTP). Technicians may enroll in the program once they have been awarded the 5-skill
   level. To learn more, visit CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. CCAF awards 30
   semester hours for FAA A&P certification and 18 semester hours for FAA Airframe or Powerplant
   certification.




                                                        8
7.2. SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance technicians are
eligible to pursue SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification based on aviation training and experience.
SpaceTEC certification is endorsed by NASA and the Aerospace industry. Air University Online offers a
Specialized Course to assist technicians prepare for the Aerospace Technician certification exams. To learn
more, visit SpaceTEC at http://www.spacetec.org/ or CCAF at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. CCAF awards 25 semester hours for the SpaceTEC
Aerospace Technician certification.

7.3. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC Program for
qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated a high level of professional
accomplishment. The purpose of the certifications is to recognize the outstanding instructor training
provided to prepare them to teach CCAF collegiate courses. The certifications also formally acknowledge
the instructor’s advanced levels of qualifications and experience. Upon completion of the CCAF Faculty
Development Program, consisting of the Basic Instructor Course (BIC) and CCAF Teaching Internship,
CCAF instructors who complete program requirements may be nominated for certification by their school
commander or commandant. The CIC Program replaced the CCAF Occupational Instructor Certification
Program.

7.4. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF offers the ISD
Certification Program for qualified course/curriculum developers and managers who are formally assigned
at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses. The purpose of the
certification is to recognize the course/curriculum developer’s or manager’s extensive training, education,
qualifications and experience required to develop and manage CCAF courses. Course/curriculum
developers and managers who complete program requirements may be nominated for certification by their
school commander, commandant or faculty development chief.

7.5. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC Program for Air Force
SNCO’s. The purpose of the certification is to formally recognize the individual’s outstanding education
and training required to lead and manage Air Force personnel and critical national defense assets. It also
acknowledges the individuals management qualifications and experience in managing Air Force resources.
Qualified Air Force enlisted personnel are eligible to pursue this certification. SNCO’s who complete
program requirements may be nominated for certification by their unit commander or commandant.

7.6. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented CERT to
increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air Force occupational
specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and provides information related to
specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian occupation equivalencies (US Department of Labor);
CCAF degree programs; national professional certifications; certifying agencies; DANTES testing; and
professional organizations. To learn more, visit CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp .

7.7. CCAF Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to
completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:

                                                                 Semester Hours
Technical Education.....................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ............6
Physical Education .........................................................4
General Education ........................................................15



                                                                9
Program Elective ..........................................................15
(Technical Education; Leadership, Management,
and Military Studies; or General Education)

                                              Total                      64

     7.7.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
     subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical Core or
     Technical Elective subjects and courses. Completion of the initial skills resident training at Sheppard
     AFB TX satisfies all or part of the technical education requirement.

     7.7.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional Military
     Education (PME) and/or civilian management courses.

     7.7.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic
     Military Training.

     7.7.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
     application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the
     definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

     7.7.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied using credit otherwise not used toward degree
     requirements; however, applicable as Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
     Studies (LMMS) or General Education subjects and courses. Nine semester hours of CCAF degree-
     applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF
     General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.
     http://www.au.af.mil/au/catalogs.asp

7.8. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty
education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC instructor
should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation
through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                                      10
8. Career Field Path

   8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A6X6 AFSC.

                                        Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                      Grade Requirements
  Education and Training Requirements               Rank      Average        Earliest    High Year Of Tenure
                                                              Sew-On         Sew-On              (HYT)
  Basic Military Training School
  Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)       Amn 6 months
                                                     A1C          16
                                                               months
  Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)             Amn 6 months
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.           A1C          16
  - Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for         SrA       months 28 months                 8 Years
    retrainees.                                                3 years
  - Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when
    available.
  Airman Leadership School (ALS)
  - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in
    service or be a SSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
    sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                      Trainer                                                 Certifier
  - Qualified and certified to perform the task to - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and
    be trained.                                      certified to perform the task being certified
  - Must attend the Air Force Training Course      - Must attend the Air Force Training Course
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs,
                                                     duty positions, units and/or work centers with
                                                     specialized training standardization and certification
                                                     requirements.
  Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)               SSgt     4.5 years      3 years           15 Years
  - Minimum rank of SSgt.
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
  - Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for
    retrainees.
  - Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
    mission design aircraft.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when
    available.
  - Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.
  Noncommissioned Officer Academy                    TSgt        10.7        5 years           20 Years
  (NCOA)                                                        years
  - Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for       MSgt         15.8        8 years           24 Years
    MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).                             years




                                                      11
   USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                  SMSgt       20.9       11 years           26 Years
   - Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.                         years
   - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
     CMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
   - A percentage of top non-select (for
     promotion to E-8) MSgts attend the SNCOA
     each year.
   Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
   - Minimum rank of SMSgt.
   Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                     CMSgt       23.9       14 years           30 Years
                                                                years

SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the 2A6X6 career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in
broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill
level. The specific tasks and knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II, Section E, Specialty
Training Standard (STS).

10. Training Requirements. The various skill levels in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge proficiency requirements for each skill level. They are stated in broad general terms and establish
the standards of performance. Unit work centers must develop a structured training program to ensure the
following requirements are met.

   10.1. Apprentice Level Training.

         10.1.1. Specialty Qualification: This information will be located in the official specialty description
         in AFECD. https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd

               10.1.1.1. Knowledge: Knowledge of the following is mandatory: electrical, electronic, and
               mechanical principles applying to E&E systems; concepts and application of maintenance
               directives; meaning of symbols used in wiring diagrams, blueprints, and schematics; and proper
               handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials in accordance with local, state,
               federal, and international environmental standards. Apprentices must be qualified to remove and
               install system components, perform operational checks, and troubleshoot simple malfunctions
               using system schematics.

               10.1.1.2. Education: For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
               basic electronics, mathematics, general science and mechanics is desirable.

               10.1.1.3. Training: For award of AFSC 2A636, completion of a basic aircraft E&E systems
               maintenance course is mandatory.

               10.1.1.4. Experience: There is no experience necessary for entry into AFSC 2A636.

               10.1.1.5. Other: For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123,
               Medical Examinations and Standards, is mandatory.



                                                       12
    10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The initial skills course, J3ABR2A636 0A9C, Aircraft
    Electrical and Environmental Systems Apprentice will provide the required knowledge and
    qualifications. Initial skills training encompasses E&E system theory and operation, electrical and
    electronic principles, system components, component removal and installation, introduction to
    maintenance concepts, general flight line and shop maintenance practices, use of technical
    publications, maintenance documentation, and support equipment familiarization and use.

    10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training, airmen are assigned to the
    82d Training Wing for completion of Course J3ABR2A636 0A9C, Aircraft Electrical and
    Environmental Systems Apprentice. Completion of this course will result in award of the 3-skill level.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

    10.2.1. Specialty Qualification: This information will be located in the official specialty description
    in AFECD. https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd

          10.2.1.1. Knowledge: In addition to the 3-level qualifications, a 5-level must possess the
          knowledge and skills necessary to maintain E&E systems and associated subsystems. This
          includes inspecting aircraft E&E systems and components, troubleshooting and correcting
          system malfunctions, and repairing and replacing system components. Journeymen perform
          operational checks, component repair, and use and maintenance of test and support equipment.
          Individuals can apply the proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials in
          accordance with local, state, federal and international environmental standards.

          10.2.1.2. Education: There are no formal education requirements for upgrade to 2A656.

          10.2.1.3. Training: Requirements for the Journeyman level require completion of the 5-level
          CDC and completion of the core tasks specified in the STS.

          10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFS 2A636 and completion of all
          5-level core tasks on one MDS aircraft identified in the STS is mandatory.

          10.2.1.5. Other: Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123 is mandatory.

    10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge training
    required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core tasks
    identified in the STS, or AFJQS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge
    base, and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

    10.2.3. Implementation. The units utilizing this STS, exportable courses, and CDCs perform
    training to the 5-level. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 2A656 CDC and 12 months
    upgrade training.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training:

  10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. This information will be located in the official specialty description in
  AFECD. https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd




                                                   13
          10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 5-level qualifications, an individual must possess
          advanced skills and knowledge of theory, concepts, principles and application of E&E systems.
          The 7-level must be able to supervise and train personnel to maintain electrical and
          environmental systems. They must be able to plan, schedule, and organize maintenance to
          ensure effective utilization of available resources. Qualification is required on advanced repair,
          inspection, troubleshooting, and diagnostic techniques. Individuals can apply the proper
          handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials in accordance with local, state,
          federal and international environmental standards. Historical documentation analysis is also
          required for all 7-levels.

          10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
          the apprentice level.

          10.3.1.3. Training. Requirements for the Craftsman level require completion of the 7-level
          2AX7X CDC and completion of the core tasks specified in the STS.

          10.3.1.4. Experience. Completion of all required 7-level core tasks as identified in the STS, and
          qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A656. Also experience performing or supervising
          functions such as installing, maintaining, or repairing aircraft E&E systems.

          10.3.1.5. Other. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123 is mandatory.

     10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Seven-level upgrade training will be conducted by
     certified trainers using AF core tasks, unit/MAJCOM specific courses.

     10.3.3. Implementation. The units utilizing the STS, and CDCs perform training to the 7-level.
     Upgrade to the 7-level requires completion of CDC 2AX7X and, completion of all core tasks, 12
     months upgrade training, and promotion to E-5.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level).

  10.4.1. Specialty Qualification. This information will be located in the official specialty description in
  AFECD. https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd

          10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: mechanical principles; electrical, fuel
          hydraulics, egress, and pressure systems; condepts and application of maintenance directives;
          interpreting wiring and schematic diagrams, blueprints, and technical publications; and proper
          handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials. In addition to 7-level
          qualifications, an individual must possess advanced skills and knowledge of concepts and
          principles in the management of aircraft maintenance. The 9-level needs to be an effective
          leader; must be able to forecast, budget and manage funds and other resources; and must be
          knowledgeable of all local, state, federal and international environmental standards and ensure
          adherence to the proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials.



          10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional requirements beyond those defined for the
          apprentice level.



                                                   14
              10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A690, completion of the Senior NCO Academy and
              promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.

              10.4.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A676. Also experience
              managing or directing functions such as installing, maintaining, reparing, overhauling, or
              modifying aircrew egress systems; aircraft fuel and in-flight refueling system; aircraft and
              equipment hydraulic systems; or aircraft and equipment electrical and environmental systems.
              repair activities for E&E systems and associated maintenance functions.

              10.4.1.5. Other. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123 is mandatory.

         10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. The Senior NCO Academy and unit OJT will be used for
         training.

         10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded upon promotion to SMSgt. Individuals must
         attend the Senior NCO Academy in-residence or complete the correspondence course.

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

11. Purpose: This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimum and
desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each
constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required, office of primary
responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated
annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training.

   12.1. Constraints. Constraints will be identified by a /X in the STS. Two training requirements listed in
   attachment 3 are constrained based on availability of trainers at the 364th Training Squadron.

        A3.1.2.5. Multi-generator system                                 2b/X
        A3.1.3.5. Multi-generator system                                 2b/X

   12.2. Resources Required.

           12.2.1. The schoolhouse currently has a contract established with 982 MXS trainer development to
           build six multi-generator system trainers.

13. Journeyman Level Training. No constraints noted.

14. Craftsman Level Training.

   14.1. Constraints. None

   14.2. Resources Required. None



                                                      15
Section E. - Transitional Training Guide. There are no transition training requirements.




                                                     16
PART II

SECTION A - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST

1. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is
measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the student so he or she
knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each task. Each objective is comprized of
a condition, behavior, and standard which states what is expected of the student for each task. The condition is
the setting in which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The behavior is the observable
portion of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the level of performance that is
measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses letter codes to identify how
it is measured. All objectives use the PC code which indicates a progress check is used to measure subject or
task knowledge. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or task knowledge
at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject or task knowledge progress check and a separate
measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test.

2. Standard. The minimum standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for performance objectives
are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual progress check checklist. The checklist is
used by the instructor to document each student's progress on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as
needed during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until
satisfactory performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all progress checks prior to taking
the written test.

3. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a particular task or
knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item the objective supports. Review
the proficiency code key in Part II, Section E of this CFETP for an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most
task performance is taught to the ‘2b’ proficiency level which means the students can do most parts of the task,
but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine
step-by-step procedures for doing the task

4. Course Objective List. A detailed listing of initial skills course objectives may be obtained by submitting a
written request to the school house Training Manager, 364 TRS/TRR, 511 9th Ave STE 1, Sheppard AFB TX,
76311-2338.

SECTION B - SUPPORT MATERIAL - NONE

SECTION C - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the E&E Systems Specialty and
shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs. For further
information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

       364 TRS/TRR
       511 9th Ave STE 1
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2338
       DSN 736-2772

https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=-1390086&command=org



                                                        17
7. Air Force In-Resident Courses.

       364 TRS/TTMAS
       511 9th Ave STE 1
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2338
       DSN 736-2772

To view courses in the ETCA use the following Web site: https://etca.randolph.af.mil

 COURSE NO.             COURSE TITLE                         LOCATION                   USER
 J3ABR2A636 0A9C        Aircraft Electrical and              Sheppard AFB               AF, FMS,
                        Environmental Systems Apprentice                                ANGRC,
                                                                                        AFRC

8. AU A4/6 http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

To view courses in the ETCA use the following Web site: https://etca.randolph.af.mil

 COURSE NO.           COURSE TITLE                                                     OPR
 CDC 2A656            Aircraft Electrical and Environmental Systems Journeyman         364TRS/TRR
 CDC 2AX7X            Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                                  AF/A4LF

9. Exportable Courses.

Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from or are under development by, 367 TRS/TRSS at Hill
AFB, Utah, 982 MXS/TSU at Sheppard AFB, Texas. For further information on the following exportable
courses, contact the OPRs at:

       367 TRSS
       6058 Aspen Ave
       Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
       DSN 777-7830/8741

      982 MXS/TSU                                          HQ AFMC/A4UE
      912 I Ave Ste 4                                      DSN 787-6218
      Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334                          AF Technical Order System Training
      DSN 736-3001

982 MXS/TSU
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=-1468774&command.org

The Hill AFB course catalog can be ordered from DSN 777-0160, FAX 777-0897, or
https://367trss.hill.af.mil/catalog/course%20search.aspx

AF Technical Order System Training CoP, accessible via the AF Portal at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-TO-MC-35



                                                      18
To view 367 TRSS courses use the Hill AFB web site above.
COURSE NO.               COURSE TITLE (MEDIA TYPE)                         OPR       USER
C6ANU00TVT1000           Oxygen Safe handling (Online)                     367       AF
                                                                           TRSS
A2ADU00OPB2425           AGE Guides (Block 1) AGE Operator Cert Guide –    367       AF
                         Self Generating Nitrogen Servicing Cart (SGNSC)   TRSS
                         (Online)
C5AKM00TVT0011           Cold Weather Safety (Online)                      367       AF
                                                                           TRSS
I3ADU00TCB0002            Corrosion Control (Online)                       367       AF
                                                                           TRSS
I6ADU00TCB0002           Aircraft Marshalling Fixed Wing (Online)          367       AF
                                                                           TRSS
C6MDO01TVT9361           B-1B Egress (Online)                              367       AF
                                                                           TRSS
C6AWM01CPB5551           B-1B Command Aircraft Systems Training (CAST)     367       AF
                         (Online)                                          TRSS
C6AWM01CPB8903           B-1B CITS/CDDS/EMUX Operation Handbook            367       AF
                         (Online)                                          TRSS
A6AKM30TVT0001           C-130 Ground Emergency Escape (Online)            367       AF
                                                                           TRSS
A6MDU00TCB0082           G081 Maintenance Data Collection                  367       AF
                                                                           TRSS

10. Training Detachment (TD) Courses.

For further information on the TD courses, contact the OPRs at:
372 TRS                                     373 TRS
912 I Ave Suite 3                           912 I Ave Suite 4
Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2361                 Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2362
DSN 736-4801                                DSN 736-4679

 COURSE NO.            COURSE TITLE                                        OPR       USER
 J4AMP2A6X6 A00B       A-10 ECS                                            372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 B00A       A-10 ELEC Systems                                   372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 A01A       B-1B E&E Systems                                    372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 A02A       B-2 E&E Systems                                     372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 A03A       B-52H E&E Systems Maintenance                       372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 A25A       F-15A/D E&E Systems Maintenance (ECS only)          372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 C25A       F-15 Electrical Systems Maintenance                 372TRS    AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 B25A       F-15E E&E Systems Maintenance (ECS Only)            372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 D25B       F-15 ELEC Wire Maintenance                          372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 A26A       F-16 C/D ECS                                        372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 B26A       F-16 C/D Electrical Systems                         372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 C26A       F-16 Wire Repair                                    372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 A41B       U-2S E&E Systems                                    372 TRS   AF
 J4AMP2A6X6 A04B       C-5 Electrical Systems (PRI)                        373 TRS   AF



                                                   19
J4AMP2A6X6 B04A      C-5 ELEC Systems (AIRFRAME)                         373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 D04A      C-5 ENV (Fire Suppression System)                   373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 F04A      C-5 E&E Transition                                  373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 C04A      C-5 ECS Craftsman (Bleed Air & Qxygen Systems)      373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 B07A      C-17 E&E Transtion                                  373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 C07A      C-17A Flot EQP DEP Systems (FEDS)                   373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 A17A      C-130B/E/H Electrical Systems Craftsman             373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 B17A      C-130-E/H ENVMTL Systems                            373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 C17A      C-130 SPCL OPS FRC (SOF) E&E SYS                    373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 D17A      C-130J E&E Systems RPR (Operational/Maintenance)    373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 A18A      KC-135R E&E Craftsman                               373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 B18A      KC-135R/T E&E Craftsman (Transition)                373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 C18B      RC-135 E&E Craftsman (CRT)                          373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 B18A      KC-135R/T E&E Craftsman (Transition)                373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 D18A      KC-135R/T E&E Systems Troubling-Shooting            373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 B31A      KC-10A E&E Advance Trouble-Shooting                 373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 A22A      E-3 E&E Systems Journeyman                          373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 A23A      E-4B E&E Craftsman                                  373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 A24B      E-8C E&E                                            373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X6 A30A      H-60 Electrical Systems Craftsman (Operational      373 TRS   AF
                     Maintenance)

SECTION D - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS.

11. MAJCOM Courses.

HQ ACC LSG / OL-CA
6058 Aspen
Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
DSN 777-5108

ACC unique requirements.
Maintenance Readiness Training Center (MRTC) - ACC/A4Q, DET3 Community of Practice URL:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-ED-AC-64

COURSE NO.           COURSE TITLE                                       OPR          USER
 Y140009             ACC Production Superintendent                      HQACC/       ACC
                                                                        LSG
 Y140015             ACC Instructor                                     HQACC/       ACC
                                                                        LSG
 Y140020             ACC Maintenance Training Management                HQACC/       ACC
                                                                        LSG




                                               20
SECTION E - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

12. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) for classes beginning 27 August 2012.

13. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

   13.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) identify the most common tasks,
   knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill
   level.

   13.2. Lists in column 2 (Core Tasks) identify by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements. Tasks
   identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available,
   but must be accomplished when capability becomes available. MAJCOM Functional Managers,
   commanders, and supervisors may designate additional critical tasks as necessary. When designated, certify
   these critical tasks using normal core task certification procedures. As a minimum, certification on all
   AFCFM directed core tasks applicable to the specialty must be completed for skill level upgrade.
   Exemptions:

         13.2.1. Core tasks, which are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment, are not required
         for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training).

         13.2.2. For units with more than one mission design (e.g. A-10, C-130) aircraft, upgrade trainees
         need only complete core tasks on a single mission design. MFMs, unit commanders, and/or
         supervisors may require trainees to complete core task training on additional mission design aircraft,
         if desired. If some of these core tasks involve training in another unit on base, trainees must still
         complete all core tasks relevant to at least one mission design aircraft. Flightline-assigned personnel
         must complete shop core tasks and vice versa. All units are bound by the requirements in this CFETP
         and will accommodate core task trainees from other units.

         13.2.3. Units that use the GO81 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete
         Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS) core tasks. However, these units must be capable of
         training IMDS related core tasks for deployment preparation. This capability ensures GO81 users are
         capable of operating IMDS prior to deploying to IMDS using units. This requirement will remain in
         effect until GO81 and IMDS are converted to the Maintenance Information System (MIS).

   13.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
   training requirements. Use IMDS/GO81 to document technician qualifications, if available. Task
   certification must show a certification or completed date.

   13.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency to
   be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task/knowledge and the career
   knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

   13.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the
   level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.




                                                      21
   13.6. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training
   when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. For
   OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. "Go" means the individual can
   perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct
   procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

         13.6.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201.
         Automated records, utilizing MIS or IMDS/G081 reflecting this STS is highly encouraged. Use of
         Part II and attachments one and two of this CFETP are mandatory in individual training records. Use
         of Part I of this CFETP is optional. If at least one attachment from 5-16 is not used, then attachment 3
         is mandatory.

              13.6.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs
              are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, conversion of all training records to this CFETP STS is
              mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
              qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

   13.7. STS. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in theWeighted Airman Promotion System
   (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Occupational Analysis Division,
   by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of
   STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to
   higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the Enlisted Promotions References and
   Requirements Catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program.
   WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

14. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to the AETC
Training Manager at 364 TRS/TRR, 511 9th Ave. Suite 1, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-2338, DSN 736-2772.
Reference specific STS paragraphs. For a quick response to problems, call our customer service information
line, DSN 736-2574 or email 782CSIL@sheppard.af.mil.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                     JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                             Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support




                                                       22
22 ATTACHMENTS
1. Proficiency Code Key (Mandatory)
2. Training Requirements, Fundamental (Mandatory,)
3. Training Requirements, Generic (Mandatory, except as indicated in note 1 of this attachment)
4. Training Requirements, B-2 (Optional)
5. Training Requirements, C-5 (Optional)
6. Training Requirements, C-17 (Optional)
7. Training Requirements, C-130 (Optional)
8. Training Requirements, F-15 (Optional)
9. Training Requirements, F-16 (Optional)
10. Training Requirements, KC-10 (Optional)
11. Training Requirements, KC-135 (Optional)
12. Training Requirements, HH-60 (Optional)
13. Training Requirements, A-10 (Optional)
14. Training Requirements, B-1B (Optional)
15. Training Requirements, CV-22 (Optional)
16. Training Requirements, B-52 (Optional)
17. Training Requirements, C-40 (Optional)
18. Training Requirements, RC/TC/OC/WC-135 (Optional)
19. Training Requirements, E-3 (Optional)
20. Training Requirements, E-8 (Optional)
21. Training Requirements, E-4B (Optional)
22. Training Requirements, CDC 2AX7X (Mandatory)




                                                     23
This page intentionally left blank




                24
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                        Initials (Written)                           SSAN (Last 4)


Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                                     N/I



QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

Proficiency Code Key
                                      Scale                   Definition: The individual
                                      Value
                                      1                       IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most
                                                              of the task.)
Task                                  2                       IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.)

Performance                           3                       IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)

Levels                                4                       IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others
                                                              how to do the task.)
                                      a                       KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.)

*Task                                 b                       KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task.)

Knowledge                             c                       KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each
                                                              step is needed.)
Levels                                d                       KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)

                                      A                       KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)

**Subject                             B                       KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the
                                                              subject.)
Knowledge                             C                       KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)

Levels                                D                       KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common to
several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the courses or CDC’s.

/X This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources (3c/b, 2b/b, 2b/X etc.).

NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                                      24
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 1
                                               FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                             Tasks                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                    Provided
                                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                    A        B          C          D           E          A         B                C
                                                                                                                                                    3 Level   5 Level       7 Level
                                                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)          (2)
                                                                                 5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course       CDC

ATTACHMENT 2
NOTE 1: The tasks and knowledge listed in attachment 2 will be performed as applicable by personnel in the Aircraft Electrical and Environmental System Specialty.
NOTE 2: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 4: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.


A2.1.            SECURITY

A2.1.1.          Communication Security (COMSEC)                                                                                                       -         -         -          -
                 TR: DOD 5200.1R; AFI 33-211, AFI 33-204, AFI 55-30

A2.1.2.          Information Security                                                                                                                  -         -         -          -

A2.1.3.          Operations Security (OPSEC) specific                                                                                                  -         -         -          -
                 vulnerabilities of AFSC 2A6X6

A2.2.            AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
                 (AFOSH) PROGRAM
                 TR: AFIs 91-202, 91-302, Applicable OSHA
                 Standards, Applicable AFOSH standards

A2.2.1.          Hazards of AFSC 2A6X6                                                                                                                 A         B         -          -

A2.2.2.          AFOSH standards for AFSC 2A6X6                                                                                                        A         B         -          -

A2.2.3.          Maintenance Resource Management (MRM)                                                                                                 A         -         -          -

A2.2.4.          Safety precautions
                 TR: AFI 36-204, AFI 91-101, 91-104, AFI 21-101,
                 AFOSH 91-66, AFOSH 91-100, AFOSH 91-501,
                 AFOSH 91-66TOs, TO 00-25-234, 1-1A-14, 1-1A-15, 8D
                 series, 11A series, 31-1-2, 32-1-101, 33C3 series, 15X-1-
                 1series, AFMAN 91-201

A2.2.4.1.        Fundamentals

A2.2.4.1.1.      Handtools                                                                                                                                       B         -          -

A2.2.4.1.2.      In-shop                                                                                                                                         B         -          -

A2.2.4.1.3.      Flight line                                                                                                                                     B         -          -

A2.2.4.2.        Use

A2.2.4.2.1.      Handtools                                                   *                                                                         2b                  -          -

A2.2.4.2.2.      In-shop                                                     *                                                                         2b                  -          -

A2.2.4.2.3.      Flight line                                                 *                                                                         2b                  -          -

A2.2.5.          Nuclear safety/nuclear safety regulations                                                                                             -         A         -          -

A2.2.6.          Portable fire extinguishers                                                                                                           -         -         -          -

A2.2.7.          Initial Federal Hazard Communication Training Program                                                                                 -         -         -          -
                 (FHCTP)



                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 2
                                             FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                       Tasks                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                              Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B                C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level       7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)          (2)
                                                                           5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course       CDC

A2.2.8.        Explosive Safety Program                                                                                                          A         B         -          -

A2.3.          HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND WASTE
               HANDLING ACCORDING TO
               ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
               TR: AFI 23-504 / EPA State Regulations,
               AFJMAN 23-209

A2.3.1.        Types of hazardous material /fluids                                                                                               A         B         -          -

A2.3.2.        Handling procedures                                                                                                               A         B         -          -

A2.3.3.        Storage & labeling                                                                                                                A         B         -          -

A2.3.4.        Proper disposal                                                                                                                   A         B         -          -

A2.4.          MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
               TR: AFI 21-101, MAJCOM Instructions, AFI21-103,
               AFI 23-111, AFM 23-110

A2.4.1.        Maintenance Group Organizational Structure                                                                                        -         A         -          -

A2.4.2.        Basic functions within the maintenance complex                                                                                    -         A         -          -

A2.4.3.        Funds Management/depot level reparable (DLR)                                                                                      -         -         -          -

A2.4.4.        Status reporting                                                                                                                  -         -         -          -

A2.4.5.        Mission Essential System List (MESL)                                                                                              -         -         -          -

A2.5.          MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION
               TR: AFI 21-101 TO 00 Series, TOs 00-20 series,
               TO 00-35D-54

A2.5.1.        Maintenance systems                                                                                                               A         B         -          -

A2.5.2.        Inspection systems                                                                                                                A         B         -          -

A2.5.3.        Perform acceptance/transfer inspection on aircraft                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.5.4.        Perform isochronal/phase inspections (A /B /C checks)                                                                             -         -         -          -

A2.5.5.        Perform other scheduled maintenance inspections                                                                                   -         -         -          -
               (e.g. HSC / refurb / etc.)

A2.5.6.        Deficiency reporting process                                                                                                      A         B         -          -

A2.5.7.        Use AFTO Form 781A                                      *                                                                         2b        b         -          -

A2.5.8.        Use AFTO Form 781H                                      *                                                                         2b        b         -          -

A2.5.9.        Use AFTO Form 781K                                      *                                                                         2b        b         -          -

A2.5.10.       General Aircraft Procedures
               TR: MAJCOM instructions, applicable aircraft
               TO/checklist

A2.5.10.1.     Statically ground aircraft                                                                                                        -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.2.     Open / close engine cowling                                                                                                       -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.3.     Remove / install aircraft access panels                                                                                           -         -         -          -


                                                                               26
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                            FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                          Tasks                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                 Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B                C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level       7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)          (2)
                                                                              5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course       CDC

A2.5.10.4.     Use aircraft interphone system                                                                                                       -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.5.     Perform aircraft egress                                                                                                              -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.6.     Inspect/use ground maintenance stands                                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.7.     Select/use restraint harness (fall protection/prevention                                                                             -         -         -          -
               equipment)

A2.5.10.8.     Operate aircraft radios                                                                                                              -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.9.     Jack Team member                                                                                                                     -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.10.    Marshall aircraft                                                                                                                    -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.11.    Tow Team member                                                                                                                      -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.12.    Refuel/defuel member                                                                                                                 -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.13.    Perform aircraft safe for maintenance procedures                                                                                     1a        -         -          -

A2.5.10.14.    Open/Close aircraft canopy/hatches/doors                                                                                             -         -         -          -

A2.5.10.15.    Launch/recover aircraft                                                                                                              -         -         -          -

A2.6.          USE AUTOMATED MAINTENANCE SYSTEM
               TR: AFCSM 21-556

A2.6.1.        GO81

A2.6.1.1.      Principles                                                                                                                           -         -         -          -

A2.6.1.2.      Use                                                        *                                                                         -         -         -          -

A2.6.2.        IMDS

A2.6.2.1.      Principles                                                                                                                           -         B         -          -

A2.6.2.2.      Use                                                        *                                                                         2b        -         -          -

A2.7.          SUPERVISION
               TR: AFECD, AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2202

A2.7.1.        Orient new personnel                                                                                                                 -         -         -          -

A2.7.2.        Assign personnel to work crews                                                                                                       -         -         -          -

A2.7.3.        Plan work assignments and priorities                                                                                                 -         -         -          -

A2.7.4.        Schedule work assignments                                                                                                            -         -         -          -

A2.7.5.        Establish
               TR: AFI 21-101, 00-20 Series TOs, Applicable
               aircraft/shop TOs, AFIs 36-2503, AFI 36-2907

A2.7.5.1.      Work methods                                                                                                                         -         -         -          -

A2.7.5.2.      Controls                                                                                                                             -         -         -          -

A2.7.5.3.      Performance standards                                                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.7.5.4.      Personal accountability                                                                                                              -         -         -          -



                                                                                  27
                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                           FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                             Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A          B                C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level    5 Level       7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                         (1)          (2)
                                                                          5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      CDC      Course       CDC

A2.7.6.        Evaluate work performance of subordinate personnel                                                                                  -       -         -          -

A2.7.7.        Resolve technical problems for subordinate personnel                                                                                -       -         -          -

A2.7.8.        Initiate action to correct substandard performance                                                                                  -       -         -          -
               by personnel

A2.8.          TRAINING
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201, AFI36-2232
A2.8.1.         Use Training Business Area/CFETP                      *                                                                            -       -         -          -

A2.8.2.        Management of training                                                                                                              -       A         -          -

A2.8.3.        Evaluate personnel to determine need for training                                                                                   -       -         -          -

A2.8.4.        Plan / supervise OJT

A2.8.4.1.      Conduct training                                                                                                                    -       -         -          -

A2.8.4.2.      Counsel trainees on their progress                                                                                                  -       -         -          -

A2.8.4.3.      Monitor training effectiveness                                                                                                      -       -         -          -

A2.8.5.        Evaluate effectiveness of training programs/training                                                                                -       -         -          -
               evaluation reports

A2.8.6.        OJT trainer requirements

A2.8.6.1.      Prepare teaching outlines/ tasks breakdowns                                                                                         -       -         -          -

A2.8.6.2.      Provide trainees theory & training on actual                                                                                        -       -         -          -
               equipment

A2.8.6.3.      Provide feedback on training provided                                                                                               -       -         -          -

A2.8.7.        OJT task certifier requirements

A2.8.7.1.      Provide supervisor & trainer feedback on results of                                                                                 -       -         -          -
               training provided and trainees strengths/weaknesses

A2.9.          TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
               TR: TO 00-5 series, TO 00-5-1, TO 00-5-15,
               TO 00-XX series

A2.9.1.        Fundamentals of the technical order system                                                                                          A       B         -          -

A2.9.2.        Use technical manuals for specific equipment           *                                                                            2b      b         -          -

A2.9.3.        Use electronic technical manuals                                                                                                    2b      -         -          -

A2.9.4.        Use interactive technical manuals                                                                                               -           -         -          -

A2.9.5.        Use abbreviated technical orders                       *                                                                            2b      -         -          -

A2.9.6.        Use methods and procedures technical orders            *                                                                            2b      -         -          -

A2.9.7.        Use standard publications                                                                                                           -       -         -          -

A2.9.8.        Technical order improvement report                                                                                                  A       B         -          -

A2.9.9.        Time compliance technical order                                                                                                     A       B         -          -



                                                                              28
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                              FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                     Tasks                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                            Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B                C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level       7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)          (2)
                                                                         5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course       CDC

A2.9.10.       Maintain technical publications                                                                                                 -         -         -          -

A2.10.         AF SUPPLY DISCIPLINE
               TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFI 23-111, 21-101,
               TO 00-20 series

A2.10.1.       Research parts                                                                                                                  -         -         -          -

A2.10.2.       Property accountability                                                                                                         A         B         -          -

A2.10.3.       Principles of supply                                                                                                            -         B         -          -

A2.10.4.       Issue and turn-in procedures                                                                                                    a         -         -          -

A2.10.5.       Use issue and turn-in forms                                                                                                     2b        -         -          -

A2.10.6.       Standard Base Supply System (SBSS)                                                                                              A         A         -          -

A2.10.7.       Supply reports                                                                                                                  -         -         -          -

A2.10.8.       Utilize equipment allowance standards                                                                                           -         -         -          -

A2.11.         ELECTRICAL / ENVIRONMENTAL
               FUNDAMENTALS
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFOSH 91-66, TOs 00-25-234, 1-1A-8,
               1-1A-14, 32-1-101

A2.11.1.       Composite tool kit (CTK) program                                                                                                A         -         -          -

A2.11.2.       Use handtools                                         *                                                                         2b        b         -          -

A2.11.3.       Solder electrical connections

A2.11.3.1.     Conventional devices                                  *                                                                         2b        b         -          -

A2.11.3.2.     Advanced soldering                                                                                                              -         -         -          -

A2.11.4.       Solderless electrical connector devices

A2.11.4.1.     Electrical connector device fundamentals                                                                                        -         B         -          -

A2.11.4.2.     Use wire maintenance kit                              *                                                                         2b        -         -          -

A2.11.4.3.     Assemble/disassemble connector plugs                  *                                                                         2b        -         -          -

A2.11.4.4.     Replace/install splices                               *                                                                         2b        b         -          -

A2.11.4.5.     Replace/install terminals                             *                                                                         2b        b         -          -

A2.11.4.6.     Wire Maintenance

A2.11.4.6.1    Inspect                                                                                                                         a         -         -          -

A2.11.4.6.2.   Remove                                                                                                                          2b        -         -          -

A2.11.4.6.3.   Repair                                                                                                                          2b        -         -          -

A2.11.4.6.4.   Install                                                                                                                         2b        -         -          -

A2.11.4.6.5.   Use HT-900 Compressed Heating tool                                                                                              -         b         -          -

A2.11.4.6.6.   Modular blocks                                                                                                                  -         -         -          -



                                                                             29
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                             FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                              Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B                C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level       7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)          (2)
                                                                           5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course       CDC

A2.11.4.6.7.   Maintain Databus                                                                                                                  -         -         -          -

A2.11.5.       Corrosion control                                                                                                                 A         B         -          -

A2.11.6.       Use safetying devices                                  *                                                                          2b        b         -          -


A2.11.7.       Use safety cables                                                                                                                 -         -         -          -

A2.11.8.       Use appropriate hardware                               *                                                                          2b        b         -          -

A2.11.9.       Special wiring: special purpose wire, compact wire                                                                                A         B         -          -
               bundle, electrical magnetic pulse (EMP) hardened
               cable,

A2.11.10.      Protect exposed electrical connectors, open pressure                                                                              -         -         -          -
               lines, and ducting

A2.11.11.      Remove

A2.11.11.1.    Switches/protective devices                                                                                                       -         -         -          -

A2.11.11.2.    Relay/socket                                                                                                                      -         -         -          -

A2.11.11.3.    Proximity sensors/switch                                                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.11.11.4.    Transformer/power supply                                                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.11.11.5.    Circuit cards                                                                                                                     -         -         -          -

A2.11.11.6.    Integration matrix box                                                                                                            -         -         -          -

A2.11.12.      Install

A2.11.12.1.    Switches/protective devices                                                                                                       -         -         -          -

A2.11.12.2.    Relay/socket                                                                                                                      -         -         -          -

A2.11.12.3.    Proximity sensors/switch                                                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.11.12.4.    Transformer/power supply                                                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.11.12.5.    Circuit cards                                                                                                                     -         -         -          -

A2.11.12.6.    Integration matrix box                                                                                                            -         -         -          -

A2.11.13.      Fabricate flexible conduits/wiring harness                                                                                        -         -         -          -

A2.12.         AIRCRAFT FAMILIARIZATION
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs

A2.12.1.       Principles of flight                                                                                                              B         -         -          -

A2.12.2.       Location of structural components                                                                                                 A         -         -          -

A2.12.3.       Location of system components                                                                                                     A         -         -          -

A2.12.4.       Glass cockpit                                                                                                                     -         -         -          -

A2.12.5.       Operate malfunction display/mission computer               display                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.12.6.       Smoke and fire detection/suppression procedures                                                                                   -         -         -          -



                                                                               30
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                            FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                        Tasks                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                               Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B                C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level       7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)          (2)
                                                                            5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course       CDC

A2.12.7.       Operate maintenance monitor/interface                                                                                              -         -         -          -
               (built-in test) panel

A2.12.8.       Databus Channels                                                                                                                   A         A         -          -

A2.13.         ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC FUNDAMENTALS
               TR: TO 00-25-234, 31-1-141 series,
               applicable aircraft TOs

A2.13.1.       DC fundamentals: Electron theory, magnetism, voltage                                                                               B         B         -          -
               generation, Kirchhoff’s law, Ohm’s law, resistance and
               power formulas, DC motors, control protective devices

A2.13.2.       AC fundamentals: Inductors, capacitors, voltage                                                                                    B         B         -          -
               generation, transformers, AC motors

A2.13.3.       Electronic fundamentals: Solid state devices, power                                                                                B         B         -          -
               supplies, amplifiers circuits, electronic voltage
               regulators, logic gates

A2.13.4.       Use wiring diagrams                                      *                                                                         2b        b         -          -

A2.13.5.       Use schematics                                           *                                                                         2b        b         -          -

A2.13.6.       Use troubleshooting techniques                                                                                                     1b        b         -          -

A2.13.7.       Electrostatic discharge (ESD)                                                                                                      A         B         -          -

A2.14.         ELEMENTS OF PHYSICS
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.Os

A2.14.1.       Temperature                                                                                                                        B         B         -          -

A2.14.2.       Pressure                                                                                                                           B         B         -          -

A2.14.3.       Atmosphere                                                                                                                         B         B         -          -

A2.14.4.       Air flow                                                                                                                           B         B         -          -

A2.15.         BATTERY SHOP
               TR: AFOSH 91-66, TOs 8D2-2 series, 8D2-3 series,
               33C3 series, 33C3 series

A2.15.1.       Operate charging equipment                               *                                                                         -         -         -          -

A2.15.2.       Maintain charging equipment                                                                                                        -         -         -          -

A2.15.3.       Nickel-Cadmium
               TR: 8D2-3 series, 33C3 series

A2.15.3.1.     Battery fundamental                                                                                                                A         B         -          -

A2.15.3.2.     Service/Charge batteries                                 *                                                                         -         b         -          -

A2.15.4.       Sealed Lead Acid Battery (SLAB)
               TR: TOs 8D2-1-31 / 33A1 series

A2.15.4.1.     Battery fundamentals                                                                                                               A         A         -          -

A2.15.4.2.     Service/Charge batteries                                                                                                           -         b         -          -



                                                                                31
                                                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                           FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                            Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B                C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level       7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)          (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course       CDC

A2.16.         CRYOTAINER SYSTEM
               TR: AFOSH standards, TOs 34Y5 series, 35D3 series,
               35D29 series, 36G2 series, 37C2 series, 37C11-3-1,
               15X-1-1, AFOSH 91-67

A2.16.1.       Operational fundamentals

A2.16.1.1.     Oxygen                                                                                                                          B         B         -          -

A2.16.1.2.     Nitrogen                                                                                                                        -         -         -          -

A2.16.2.       Liquid oxygen cryotainer/cart

A2.16.2.1.     Operational check                                    *                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.16.2.2.     Troubleshoot                                                                                                                    -         b         -          -

A2.16.2.3.     Drain                                                *                                                                          -         b         -          -

A2.16.2.4.     Purge                                                *                                                                          -         b         -          -

A2.16.2.5.     Evacuate                                                                                                                        -         b         -          -

A2.16.2.6.     Repair components                                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.16.2.7.     Remove components                                    *                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.16.2.8.     Install components                                   *                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.16.2.9.     Perform Leak check                                   *                                                                          -         b         -          -

A2.16.2.10.    Inspect                                                        *                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.16.2.11.    Clean components                                     *                                                                          -         b         -          -

A2.16.3.       Liquid nitrogen cryotainer/cart

A2.16.3.1.     Operational check                                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.16.3.2.     Troubleshoot                                                                                                                    -         -         -          -

A2.16.3.3.     Drain                                                                                                                           -         -         -          -

A2.16.3.4.     Purge                                                                                                                           -         -         -          -

A2.16.3.5.     Evacuate                                                                                                                        -         -         -          -

A2.16.3.6.     Repair components                                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.16.3.7.     Remove components                                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.16.3.8.     Install components                                                                                                              -         -         -          -

A2.16.3.9.     Leak check                                                                                                                      -         -         -          -

A2.16.3.10.    Inspect                                                                                                                         -         -         -          -

A2.16.4.       LN2 GSU Truck

A2.16.4.1.     Operational check                                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.16.4.2.     Troubleshoot                                                                                                                    -         -         -          -



                                                                            32
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                           FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                            2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                            Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    A        B          C          D           E          A         B                C
                                                                                                                                    3 Level   5 Level       7 Level
                                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)          (2)
                                                                5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course       CDC

A2.16.4.3.     Drain                                                                                                                   -         -         -          -

A2.16.4.4.     Purge                                                                                                                   -         -         -          -

A2.16.4.5.     Evacuate                                                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.16.4.6.     Repair components                                                                                                       -         -         -          -

A2.16.4.7.     Remove components                                                                                                       -         -         -          -

A2.16.4.8.     Install components                                                                                                      -         -         -          -

A2.16.4.9.     Leak check                                                                                                              -         -         -          -

A2.16.4.10.    Inspect                                                                                                                 -         -         -          -

A2.16.5.       Gaseous nitrogen / oxygen servicing carts

A2.16.5.1.     Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -         -          -

A2.16.5.2.     Inspect                                                *                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.16.5.3.     Remove components                            *                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.16.5.4.     Install components                           *                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.16.5.5.     Leak/Operational check                       *                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.16.5.6.     Clean components                             *                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.16.6.       Purge unit GSU 62/M

A2.16.6.1.     Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -         -          -

A2.16.6.2.     Inspect                                                                                                                 -         -         -          -

A2.16.6.3.     Remove components                                                                                                       -         -         -          -

A2.16.6.4.     Install components                                                                                                      -         -         -          -

A2.17.         METERS AND TESTERS
               TR: Applicable 33 series TOs

A2.17.1.       Use insulation tester                                                                                                   -         -         -          -

A2.17.2.       Use decade box                                                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.17.3.       Use ECS tester                                                                                                          2b        -         -          -

A2.17.4.       Use electrical/pneumatic component testers                                                                              -         -         -          -

A2.17.5.       Use oxygen system regulator tester                                                                                      2b        -         -          -

A2.17.6.       Use sonic leak detector                                                                                                 -         -         -          -

A2.17.7.       Use cockpit cabin pressure leakage tester                                                                               -         b         -          -

A2.17.8.       Use anti-skid tester                                                                                                    2b        -         -          -

A2.17.9.       Use bonding meter                                                                                                       -         b         -          -

A2.17.10.      Use multimeter                                                                                                                              -          -



                                                                    33
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 2
                                             FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                           2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                           Tasks                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                  Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                  A        B          C          D           E          A         B                C
                                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5 Level       7 Level
                                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)          (2)
                                                                               5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course       CDC

A2.17.10.1.    Digital                                                     *                                                                         2b        b         -          -

A2.17.10.2.    Analog                                                                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.17.11.      Use frequency meters/counters                                                                                                         -         -         -          -

A2.17.12.      Use fire system tester                                                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.17.13.      Use fire detection control unit tester                                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.17.14.      Use igniter circuit tester                                                                                                            -         -         -          -

A2.17.15.      Use oscilloscope                                                                                                                      -         -         -          -

A2.17.16.      Use time domain reflectometer                                                                                                         -         -         -          -

A3.17.17.      Use wire analyzer                                                                                                                     -         -         -          -

A2.17.18.      Use Eclypse ESP tester or equivalent                                                                                                  -         -          -         -

A2.17.19.      Perform periodic inspections/pre-use inspections                                                                                      -         -         -          -

A2.17.20.      Maintenance/repair on test equipment                                                                                                  -         -         -          -

A2.17.21.      Locally manufactured test equipment

A2.17.21.1.    Use                                                                                                                                   -         -         -          -

A2.17.21.2.    Troubleshoot                                                                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.17.21.3.    Repair                                                                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.17.22.      Use Load light                                                                                                                        -         b         -          -

A2.17.23.      Bench check/repair air conditioning temperature control                                                                               -         -         -          -
               box tester

A2.17.24.      Use linear and rotary actuator test stand                                                                                             -         -         -          -

A2.17.25.      Troubleshoot/repair linear and rotary actuator test stand                                                                             -         -         -          -

A2.17.26.      Use flap/slat brake tester                                                                                                            -         -         -          -

A2.17.27.      AC Load Bank

A2.17.27.1.    Use                                                                                                                                   -         -         -          -

A2.17.27.2.    Troubleshoot                                                                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.17.27.3.    Repair                                                                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.17.28.      Constant speed drive/generator test stand

A2.17.28.1.    Use                                                                                                                                   -         -         -          -

A2.17.28.2.    Troubleshoot                                                                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.17.28.3.    Repair                                                                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.      Miscellaneous Test Equipment

A2.17.29.1.    Use TTU-205                                                                                                                           -         -         -          -



                                                                                   34
                                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 2
                                              FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                           2. Core        3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                           Tasks                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B                C
                                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level       7 Level
                                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)          (2)
                                                                             5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course       CDC

A2.17.29.2.    Use micron gauge                                                                                                                    -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.3.    Use ultraviolet light                                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.4.    Operate wiring marking machines                                                                                                     -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.5.    Use pneumatic system tester (electrical/nitrogen)                                                                                   -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.6.    Use windshield anti-ice system tester                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.7.    Use Jet-Cal tester                                                                                                                  -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.8.    Use Temp- Cal tester                                                                                                                -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.9.    Use vacuum pump                                                                                                                     -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.10.   Use landing gear control panel tester                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.11.   Use throttle quadrant tester                                                                                                        -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.12.   Operate wire braiding machine                                                                                                       -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.13    Inspect/Repair Explosion Proof lights                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.17.29.14    Use Laser Thermometer                                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.18.         LIFE RAFT INFLATION EQUIPMENT
               TR: AFOSH standards, TO 14S1 series,
               8 series component TOs

A2.18.1.       Operational fundamentals

A2.18.1.1.     Life raft inflation equipment                                                                                                       -         B         -          -

A2.18.1.2.     Slide inflation equipment                                                                                                           -         -         -          -

A2.18.2.       Repair                                                                                                                              -         -         -          -

A2.18.3.       Inspect life raft inflation cylinder recharging equipment

A2.18.3.1.     Bottles                                                                                                                             -         -         -          -

A2.18.3.2.     Life raft inflation cylinder recharging equipment                                                                                   -         -         -          -

A2.18.3.3.     Service/leak check bottles                                                                                                          -         -         -          -

A2.18.3.4.     Life raft                                                                                                                           -         b         -          -

A2.18.3.5.     Slide                                                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.18.4.       Patient Therapeutic (PT) LOX Converter
               TR: 15X Series

A2.18.4.1.     Drain                                                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.18.4.2.     Service                                                                                                                             -         -         -          -

A2.18.4.3.     Purge                                                                                                                               -         -         -          -

A2.18.4.4.     Operational/Leak check                                                                                                              -         -         -          -

A2.18.4.5.     Remove/Install components                                                                                                           -         -         -          -



                                                                                 35
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
 FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                36
                                     Attachment 2
                                                   GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                            2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                            Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                     A       B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                    3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 3
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 3 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain aircraft not listed in Specific
Aircraft CFETP Attachments.
NOTE 2: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 4: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
NOTE 6: Multi generator system will replace Single generator system once assets are available.
A3.1.           AC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component
                series
A3.1.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                               B         B        -          -
A3.1.2.         Operational check
A3.1.2.1.       60 Hertz system                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.1.2.2.       Co-pilot instrument power system                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.1.2.3.       BPCU interrogation/BIT check                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.1.2.4.       Single generator system                                     *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.1.2.5.       Multi-generator system                                      *                                                                       2b/X         -        -          -
A3.1.2.6.       Emergency generator system                                                                                                             2b        -        -          -
A3.1.3.         Troubleshoot
A3.1.3.1.       60 Hertz system                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.1.3.2.       Co-pilot instrument power system                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.1.3.3.       BPCU interrogation/BIT check                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.1.3.4.       Single generator system                                               *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.1.3.5.       Multi-generator system                                                *                                                               2b/X       b        -          -
A3.1.3.6.       Emergency generator system                                            *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.1.4.         Inspect system components                                             *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.         Remove components
A3.1.5.1.       AC generator control units                                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.2.       CSD                                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.3.       AC generators                                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.4.       Generator/bus protection panels                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.5.       Generator voltage regulators                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.6.       Generator frequency load controllers                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.7.       Frequency control unit                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.8.       Bus tie/generator line contactor                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.9.       Inverter                                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.10.      Circuit breaker panels                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.11.      Relays                                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -



                                                                                    37
                                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 3
                                                  GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                                  Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                    3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.1.5.12.     Survivability/vulnerability (S/V) box                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.1.5.13.     CSD/IDG Filters                                                                                                         2b        -        -          -
A3.1.5.14.     Current transformer                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.        Repair components
A3.1.6.1.      AC generator control units                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.2.      CSD                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.3.      Mate and demate generator and CSD             *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.4       AC generators                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.5.      Generator/bus protection panels                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.6.      Generator voltage regulators                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.7.      Generator frequency load controllers                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.8.      Frequency control unit                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.9.      Bus tie/generator line contactor                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.10.     Inverter                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.1.6.11.     Circuit breaker panels                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.        Install components
A3.1.7.1.      AC generator control units                    *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.2.      CSD                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.3.      AC generators                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.4.      Generator/bus protection panels                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.5.      Generator voltage regulators                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.6.      Generator frequency load controllers                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.7.      Frequency control unit                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.8.      Bus tie/generator line contactor                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.9.      Relays                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.10.     Survivability/vulnerability (S/V) box                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.11.     CSD/IDG Filters                                                                                                         2b        -        -          -
A3.1.7.12.     Current transformer                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.13.     Inverter                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.1.7.14.     Circuit breaker panels                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.1.8.        Bench check

A3.1.8.1.      AC generator control units                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.1.8.2.      CSD                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.1.8.3.      AC generators                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.1.8.4.      Generator/bus protection panels                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.1.8.5.      Generator voltage regulators                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.1.8.6.      Generator frequency load controllers                                                                                    -         -        -          -



                                                                     38
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 3
                                                  GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.1.8.7.      Frequency control unit                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.1.8.8.      Bus tie/generator line contactor                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.1.8.9.      Relays                                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.1.8.10.     Inverter                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.1.8.11.     Circuit breaker panels                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.2.          DC POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.2.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         B         B        -          -
A3.2.2.        Operational check                                     *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.2.3.        Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.2.4.        Inspect system components                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.2.5.        Remove components
A3.2.5.1.      Battery                                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.2.5.2.      Battery charger                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.2.5.3.      Transformer rectifier/ Converter                                                                                                 2b        -        -          -
A3.2.5.4.      Reverse current relays                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.2.5.5.      Circuit breaker panels                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.2.6.        Repair components
A3.2.6.1.      Battery charger                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.2.6.2.      Transformer rectifier/ Converter                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.2.6.3.      Reverse current relays                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.2.6.4.      Circuit breaker panels                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.2.7.        Install components
A3.2.7.1.      Battery                                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.2.7.2.      Battery charger                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.2.7.3.      Transformer rectifier/ Converter                                                                                                 2b        -        -          -
A3.2.7.4.      Reverse current relays                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.2.7.5.      Circuit breaker panels                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.3.          EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         B         B        -          -
A3.3.2.        Operational check                                     *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.3.3.        Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.3.4.        Inspect system components                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.3.5.        Remove components
A3.3.5.1.      External power receptacle                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.3.5.2.      External power monitor                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.3.5.3.      Line contactor                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -


                                                                             39
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.3.6.        Install components
A3.3.6.1.      External power receptacle                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.3.6.2.      External power monitor                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.3.6.3.      Line contactor                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.        APU power system
A3.3.7.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.2.      Operational check                                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.3.      Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.4.      Inspect system components                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.5.      Remove components
A3.3.7.5.1.    Generator                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.5.2.    Generator control unit                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.5.3.    Line contactor                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.5.4.    Electronic control unit                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.6.      Repair components
A3.3.7.6.1.    Generator                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.6.2.    Generator control unit                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.7.      Install components
A3.3.7.7.1.    Generator                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.7.2.    Generator control unit                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.7.3.    Line contactor                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.3.7.7.4.    Electronic control unit                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.4.          LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.4.1.        Operational fundamentals
A3.4.1.1.      Interior                                                                                                                         B         B        -          -
A3.4.1.2.      Exterior                                                                                                                         B         B        -          -
A3.4.1.3.      Emergency                                                                                                                        B                  -          -
A3.4.1.4.      UARRSI/Slipway/Receptacle                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.4.1.5.      Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.4.2.        Operational check
A3.4.2.1.      Interior                                              *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.4.2.2.      Exterior                                              *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.4.2.3.      Emergency                                             *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.4.2.4.      UARRSI/Slipway/Receptacle                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.4.2.5.      Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.4.3.        Troubleshoot



                                                                             40
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                               GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5           7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.4.3.1.      Interior                                             *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.4.3.2.      Exterior                                             *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.4.3.3.      Emergency                                            *                                                                2b        -        -          -
A3.4.3.4.      UARRSI/Slipway/Receptacle                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.4.3.5.      Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.4.4.        Inspect
A3.4.4.1.      Interior                                             *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.4.4.2.      Exterior                                             *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.4.4.3.      Emergency                                            *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.4.4.4.      UARRSI/Slipway/Receptacle                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.4.4.5.      Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.        Remove components
A3.4.5.1.      Interior
A3.4.5.1.1.    Control panel                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.1.2.    Dimmers/transformer                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.1.3.    Control box                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.1.4.    Light assemblies                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.1.5.    Power supply                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.1.6.    Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.      Exterior
A3.4.5.2.1.    Navigation/formation                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.2.    Anti-collision                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.3.    Strobe                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.4.    Surge suppressor                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.5.    Strobe light power supply                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.6.    Landing light                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.7.    Taxi light                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.8.    Terrain clearance lights                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.9.    UARRSI/Slipway/Receptacle                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.10.   Area lights                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.2.11.   Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.3.      Emergency
A3.4.5.3.1.    Emergency exit lights                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.3.2.    Control box                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.4.5.3.3.    Power supply                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.        Repair components
A3.4.6.1.      Interior



                                                                41
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 3
                                               GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core        3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.4.6.1.1.    Control panel                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.1.2.    Control box                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.1.3.    Light assemblies                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.1.4.    Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.2.      Exterior
A3.4.6.2.1.    Navigation/formation                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.2.2.    Anti-collision                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.2.3.    Strobe                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.2.4.    Landing light                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.2.5.    Taxi light                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.2.6.    Terrain clearance lights                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.2.7.    Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.3.      Emergency
A3.4.6.3.1.    Emergency exit lights                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.3.2.    Control box                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.4.6.3.3.    Power supply                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.        Install components
A3.4.7.1.      Interior
A3.4.7.1.1.    Control panel                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.1.2.    Dimmers/transformer                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.1.3.    Control box                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.1.4.    Light assemblies                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.1.5.    Power supply                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.1.6.    Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.      Exterior
A3.4.7.2.1.    Navigation/formation                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.2.    Anti-collision                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.3.    Strobe                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.4.    Surge suppressor                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.5.    Strobe light power supply                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.6.    Landing light                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.7.    Taxi light                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.8.    Terrain clearance lights                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.9.    UARRSI/Slipway/Receptacle                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.10.   Area lights                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.2.11.   Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.3.      Emergency



                                                                42
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 3
                                                   GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.4.7.3.1.    Emergency exit lights                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.3.2.    Control box                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.4.7.3.3.    Power supply                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.        Bench check components
A3.4.8.1.      Interior
A3.4.8.1.1.    Control panel                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.1.2.    Control box                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.1.3.    Light assemblies                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.1.4.    Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.2.      Exterior
A3.4.8.2.1.    Navigation/formation                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.2.2.    Anti-collision                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.2.3.    Strobe                                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.2.4.    Landing light                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.2.5.    Taxi light                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.2.6.    Terrain clearance lights                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.2.7.    Emergency exit lights                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.4.8.2.8.    Night Vision Imaging system (NVIS)                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.5.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.5.1.        Operational fundamentals
A3.5.1.1.      Control                                                                                                                          B         B        -          -
A3.5.1.2.      Warning and indication                                                                                                           B         B        -          -
A3.5.2.        Operational check
A3.5.2.1.      Control                                               *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.5.2.2.      Position A (ground position supervisor)                         */R                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.5.2.3.      Position B (gear handle operator)                     */R                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.5.2.4.      Position C                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.5.2.5.      Warning and indication                                *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.5.2.6.      Crosswind crab system                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.5.2.7.      Interrogate proximity interference unit                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.5.3.        Troubleshoot
A3.5.3.1.      Control                                                         *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.5.3.2.      Warning and indication                                          *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.5.3.3.      Crosswind crab system                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.5.4.        Inspect system components                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.5.5.        Remove components



                                                                             43
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.5.5.1.      Landing gear control panel                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.5.5.2.      Landing gear control relay box                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.5.5.3.      Junction box                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.5.5.4.      Audible warning control                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.5.5.5.      Warning horn                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.5.6.        Repair components
A3.5.6.1.      Landing gear control panel                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.5.6.2.      Landing gear control relay box                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.5.6.3.      Junction box                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.5.6.4.      Warning horn                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.5.7.        Install components
A3.5.7.1.      Landing gear control panel                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.5.7.2.      Landing gear control relay box                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.5.7.3.      Junction box                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.5.7.4.      Audible warning control                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.5.7.5.      Warning horn                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.5.8.        Bench check components
A3.5.8.1.      Landing gear control panel                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.5.8.2.      Landing gear control relay box                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.5.8.3.      Junction box                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.5.8.4.      Warning horn                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.6.          ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component
               series
A3.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         B         B        -          -
A3.6.2.        Operational check                                     *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.6.3.        Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                2b        -        -          -
A3.6.4.        Inspect system components                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.6.5.        Remove components
A3.6.5.1.      Anti-skid control box                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.6.5.2.      Anti-skid transducer                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.6.5.3.      Spin-up control box                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.6.6.        Install components
A3.6.6.1.      Anti-skid control box                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.6.6.2.      Anti-skid transducer                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.6.6.3.      Spin-up control box                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.7.          BRAKE TEMPERATURE INDICATING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs



                                                                             44
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.7.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.7.2.        Operational Check                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.7.3.        Troubleshoot                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.7.4.        Inspect System components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.7.5.        Remove components
A3.7.5.1.      Temperature control unit                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.7.5.2.      Temperature sensor                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.7.6.        Install components
A3.7.6.1.      Temperature control unit                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.7.6.2.      Temperature sensor                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.8.          NOSE GEAR STEERING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         B         B        -          -
A3.8.2.        Operational check                                     *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.8.3.        Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.8.4.        Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.8.5.        Remove components
A3.8.5.1.      Control unit                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.8.5.2.      Transducer                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.8.6.        Install components
A3.8.6.1.      Control unit                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.8.6.2.      Transducer                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.9.          PRIMARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         B         -        -          -
A3.9.2.        Operational check
A3.9.2.1.      Control system                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.9.2.2.      Trim/indication system                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.9.3.        Troubleshoot
A3.9.3.1.      Control system                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.9.3.2.      Trim/indication system                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.9.4.        Inspect System Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.10.         SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.10.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         B         B        -          -
A3.10.2.       Operational check
A3.10.2.1.     Flaps                                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.10.2.2.     Trim                                                                                                                             -         -        -          -


                                                                             45
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.10.2.3.     Speed brakes                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.10.2.4.     Spoilers                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.10.3.       Troubleshoot
A3.10.3.1.     Flaps                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.10.3.2.     Trim                                                                                                                         -         b        -          -
A3.10.3.3.     Speed brakes                                                                                                                 -         b        -          -
A3.10.3.4.     Spoilers                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.10.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.10.5.       Remove components
A3.10.5.1.     Emergency Flight Control Panel                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.10.5.2.     Speed brake Cam limit switch                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.10.5.3.     Flap position control unit                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.10.5.4      Flight control relay box                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.10.6.       Repair components
A3.10.6.1.     Emergency Flight Control Panel                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.10.6.2.     Flight control relay box                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.10.7.       Install components
A3.10.7.1.     Emergency Flight Control Panel                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.10.7.2.     Speed brake Cam limit switch                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.10.7.3.     Flap position control unit                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.10.7.4.     Flight control relay box                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.11.         OVERHEAT/FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component
               series
A3.11.1.       Operational fundamentals
A3.11.1.1.     Engine/pylon                                                                                                                 B         B        -          -
A3.11.1.2.     Smoke detection                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.11.1.3.     APU                                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.11.1.4.     Bleed air overheat                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.11.1.5.     Wing overheat                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.11.2.       Operational check
A3.11.2.1.     Engine/pylon                                      *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.11.2.2.     Smoke detection                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.11.2.3.     APU                                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.11.2.4.     Bleed air overheat                                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.11.2.5.     Wing overheat                                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.11.3.       Troubleshoot
A3.11.3.1.     Engine/pylon                                                *                                                                2b        -        -          -


                                                                         46
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 3
                                                 GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.11.3.2.     Smoke detection                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.11.3.3.     APU                                                         *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.11.3.4.     Bleed air overheat                                          *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.11.3.5.     Wing overheat                                               *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.11.4.       Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.11.5.       Remove components
A3.11.5.1.     Sensing elements                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.11.5.2.     Smoke detectors                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.11.5.3.     Bleed air overheat control box                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.11.5.4.     Fire/overheat detectors                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.11.5.5.     Flasher control unit                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.11.6.       Adjust fire/overheat detectors                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.11.7.       Install components
A3.11.7.1.     Sensing elements                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.11.7.2.     Smoke detectors                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.11.7.3.     Bleed air overheat control box                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.11.7.4.     Fire/overheat detectors                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.11.7.5.     Flasher control unit                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.11.8.       Bench check fire/overheat detectors                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.12.         FIRE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component
               series
A3.12.1.       Operational fundamentals
A3.12.1.1.     Engine                                                                                                                       B         B        -          -
A3.12.1.2.     APU                                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.12.1.3.     Wing                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.12.2.       Operational check
A3.12.2.1.     Engine                                            *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.12.2.2.     APU                                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.12.2.3.     Wing                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.12.2.4.     Fire doors                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.12.3.       Troubleshoot
A3.12.3.1.     Engine                                                      *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.12.3.2.     APU                                                         *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.12.3.3.     Wing                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.12.3.4.     Fire doors                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.12.4.       Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.12.5.       Remove components


                                                                         47
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 3
                                                GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.12.5.1.     Engine fire bottle                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.12.5.2.     APU fire bottle                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.12.5.3.     Squib/cartridge                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.12.5.4.     Wing fire bottle                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.12.5.5.     Resistor box                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.12.5.6.     T- handle assembly                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.12.5.7.     Suppressor                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.12.6.       Repair components
A3.12.6.1.     Resistor box                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.12.6.2.     T- handle assembly                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.12.7.       Install components
A3.12.7.1.     Engine fire bottle                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.12.7.2.     APU fire bottle                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.12.7.3.     Squib/cartridge                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.12.7.4.     Wing fire bottle                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.12.7.5.     Resistor box                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.12.7.6.     T- handle assembly                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.12.7.7.     Suppressor                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.12.8.       Bench check components
A3.12.8.1.     Resistor box                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.12.8.2.     T- handle assembly                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.13.         TAKEOFF WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component
               series
A3.13.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -         B        -          -
A3.13.2.       Operational check                                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.13.3.       Troubleshoot                                                *                                                                -         b        -          -
A3.13.4.       Inspect system components                                   *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.13.5.       Adjust position switches                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.14.         MASTER CAUTION/WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component
               series
A3.14.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     B         B        -          -
A3.14.2.       Operational check                                 *                                                                         2b         -        -          -
A3.14.3.       Troubleshoot                                                *                                                               2b         -        -          -
A3.14.4.       Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.14.5.       Remove components
A3.14.5.1.     Controller                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -



                                                                         48
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 3
                                                   GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core        3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                      Tasks                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.14.5.2.     Flasher                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.14.5.3.     Annunciator panel                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.14.5.4.     Light assembly                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.14.6.       Repair components
A3.14.6.1.     Controller                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.14.6.2.     Annunciator panel                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.14.7.       Install components
A3.14.7.1.     Controller                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.14.7.2.     Flasher                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.14.7.3.     Annunciator panel                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.14.7.4.     Light assembly                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.14.8.       Bench check components
A3.14.8.1.     Controller                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.14.8.2.     Annunciator panel                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.15.         DOOR CONTROL AND WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.15.1.       Cargo Ramp/Door
A3.15.1.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       B         B        -          -
A3.15.1.2.     Troubleshoot control and warning system                                                                                        b         b        -          -
A3.15.2.       Weapons doors
A3.15.2.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.15.2.2.     Operational check                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.15.2.3.     Troubleshoot                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.15.2.4.     Inspect System Components                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.15.3.       Adjust switches                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.16.         FUEL WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.16.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -         B        -          -
A3.16.2.       Operational check
A3.16.2.1.     Fuel warning and control system                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.16.2.2.     In-flight refueling (IFR)/Universal aerial refueling                                                                           -         -        -          -
               receptacle slipway installation (UARRSI) system
A3.16.2.3.     Ground refuel system                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.16.3.       Troubleshoot
A3.16.3.1.     Fuel warning and control system                                                                                                -         b        -          -
A3.16.3.2.     In-flight refueling (IFR)/Universal aerial refueling                                                                           -         -        -          -
               receptacle slipway installation (UARRSI) system
A3.16.3.3.     Ground refuel system                                                                                                           -         -        -          -



                                                                            49
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 3
                                                 GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5           7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.16.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.16.5.       Remove components
A3.16.5.1.     Fuel management switches                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.16.5.2.     Single point refueling panel                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.16.5.3.     Fuel management panel                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.16.5.4.     Fuel & engine control relay box                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.16.6.       Repair components
A3.16.6.1.     Single point refueling panel                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.16.6.2.     Fuel management panel                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.16.6.3.     Fuel & engine control relay box                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.16.7.       Install components
A3.16.7.1.     Fuel management switches                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.16.7.2.     Single point refueling panel                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.16.7.3.     Fuel management panel                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.16.7.4.     Fuel & engine control relay box                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.16.8.       Bench check components
A3.16.8.1.     Single point refueling panel                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.16.8.2.     Fuel management panel                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.16.8.3.     Fuel & engine control relay box                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.17.         START AND IGNITION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.17.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -         B        -          -
A3.17.2.       Operational check
A3.17.2.1.     Engine                                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.17.2.2.     APU                                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.17.2.3.     Cartridge start                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.17.3.       Troubleshoot
A3.17.3.1.     Engine                                                          *                                                                -         b        -          -
A3.17.3.2.     APU                                                             *                                                                -         b        -          -
A3.17.3.3.     Cartridge start                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.17.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.17.5.       Repair components
A3.17.5.1.     Centrifugal switch                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.17.5.2.     Breech cap                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.17.5.3.     Throttle quadrant                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.17.6.       Bench check components
A3.17.6.1.     Breech cap                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -



                                                                           50
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                     GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.17.6.2.     Throttle quadrant                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.18.         NESA ANTI-ICING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.18.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         B         B        -          -
A3.18.2.       Operational check                                     *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.18.3.       Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.18.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.18.5.       Remove components
A3.18.5.1.     Temperature controller                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.18.5.2.     Windshield heat control box                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.18.5.3.     Thermal snap switch                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.18.5.4.     Transformers                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.18.6.       Install components
A3.18.6.1.     Temperature controller                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.18.6.2.     Windshield heat control box                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.18.6.3.     Thermal snap switch                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.18.6.4.     Transformers                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.19.         BLEED AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.19.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         B         B        -          -
A3.19.2.       Operational check                                     *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.19.3.       Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.19.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.19.5.       Perform leakage checks                                *                                                                          2b        b        -          -
A3.19.6.       Perform leak check with nitrogen cart                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.19.7.       Perform duct hydrostatic check                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.19.8.       Remove components
A3.19.8.1.     Ducts                                                 *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.19.8.2.     Insulation blankets                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.19.8.3.     Check valve                                           *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.19.8.4.     Pressure regulator/shutoff valve                      *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.19.8.5.     Engine bleed air distribution valve                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.19.8.6.     Ejector valve                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.19.8.7.     By-pass valve                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.19.8.8.     Pre-cooler                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.19.8.9.     Pre-cooler temperature control valve                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.19.8.10.    Pre-cooler temperature control box                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.19.8.11.    Temperature sensor                                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -


                                                                             51
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                     GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                  Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.19.8.12.    Pressure sensor                                       *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.19.8.13.    Backup valve                                                                                                                    2b        -        -          -
A3.19.9.       Install components
A3.19.9.1.     Ducts                                                 *                                                                         2b        -        -          -
A3.19.9.2.     Insulation blankets                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.19.9.3.     Check valve                                           *                                                                         2b        -        -          -
A3.19.9.4.     Pressure regulator/shutoff valve                      *                                                                         2b        -        -          -
A3.19.9.5.     Engine bleed air distribution valve                   *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.19.9.6.     Ejector valve                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.19.9.7.     By-pass valve                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.19.9.8.     Pre-cooler                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.19.9.9.     Pre-cooler temperature control valve                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.19.9.10.    Pre-cooler temperature control box                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.19.9.11.    Temperature sensor                                    *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.19.9.12.    Pressure sensor                                       *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.19.9.13.    Backup valve                                                                                                                    2b        -        -          -
A3.20.         AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.20.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        B         B        -          -
A3.20.2.       Subsystem fundamentals
A3.20.2.1.     Anti-G suit system                                                                                                              B         B        -          -
A3.20.2.2.     Defogging system                                                                                                                B         B        -          -
A3.20.2.3.     Rain removal system                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.20.2.4.     Avionics/equipment cooling                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.20.3.       Operational check
A3.20.3.1.     Air conditioning systems                              *                                                                         2b        -        -          -
A3.20.3.2.     Anti-G suit system                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.20.3.3.     Defogging system                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.20.3.4.     Rain removal system                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.20.3.5.     Temperature control                                                                                                             -         -        -          -

A3.20.3.6.     Low limit 35control/Pack Anti-ice                                                                                              -         -        -          -

A3.20.3.7.     Avionics/equipment cooling                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.20.3.8.     Ram air                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.20.3.9.     Cabin heat control                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.20.3.10.    Interrogate environmental control system controller                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.20.3.11.    Perform leakage checks                                *                                                                         2b        b        -          -
A3.20.3.12.    Bench check fans                                                                                                                -         -        -          -



                                                                             52
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 3
                                                GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                   A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                               5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.20.3.13.    Perform duct hydrostatic test                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.20.4.       Troubleshoot
A3.20.4.1.     Air conditioning systems                              *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.20.4.2.     Anti-G suit system                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.20.4.3.     Defogging system                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.20.4.4.     Rain removal system                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.20.4.5.     Temperature control                                   *                                                                -         -        -          -

A3.20.4.6.     Low limit 35control/Pack Anti-ice                                                                                     -         -        -          -

A3.20.4.7.     Avionics/equipment cooling                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.20.4.8.     Ram air                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.20.4.9.     Cabin heat control                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.20.5.       Inspect System Components                             *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.       Remove components
A3.20.6.1.     Water separator                             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.2.     Water separator coalescer                   *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.20.6.3.     Air conditioning pack                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.4.     Catalytic filter                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.5.     ECS over pressure switch                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.6.     ECS pressure regulator valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.7.     Temperature control box                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.8.     Primary heat exchanger                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.9.     Secondary heat exchanger                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.10.    Temperature sensor                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.11.    ECS control panel                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.12.    Cabin duct heater                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.13.    Ejector valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.14.    Ram air plenum                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.15.    Ram air valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.16.    Air Cycle Machine/Turbines                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.17.    Pack Anti-ice valve                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.18.    Temperature control valve                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.19.    Stores cooling valve                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.20.    CTCS controller                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.21.    ACS/MCS controller                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.22.    Anti-G suit valve/hose                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.23.    Defog valve                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.24.    Rain removal valve                                                                                                     -         -        -          -



                                                                   53
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 3
                                                  GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                        Tasks                                                                  Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                            5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.20.6.25.    Air conditioning control switch                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.26.    Ducting                                                  *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.20.6.27.    Recirculation/electric/electronic cooling/vanaxial                                                                                 -         -        -          -
               fan
A3.20.7.       Repair components
A3.20.7.1.     Water separator                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.20.7.2.     ECS control panel                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.20.7.3.     Ducting                                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.20.7.4.     Catalytic filter                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.20.7.5.     Recirculation/electric/electronic cooling/vanaxial fan                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.       Install components
A3.20.8.1.     Water separator                                          *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.2.     Water separator coalescer                                *                                                                         2b        -        -          -
A3.20.8.3.     Air conditioning pack                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.4.     Catalytic filter                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.5.     ECS over pressure switch                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.6.     ECS pressure regulator valve                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.7.     Temperature control box                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.8.     Primary heat exchanger                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.9.     Secondary heat exchanger                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.10.    Temperature sensor                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.11.    ECS control panel                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.12.    Cabin duct heater                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.13.    Ejector valve                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.14.    Ram air plenum                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.15.    Ram air valve                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.16.    Air Cycle Machine/Turbines                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.17.    Pack Anti-ice valve                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.18.    Temperature control valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.19.    Stores cooling valve                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.20.    CTCS controller                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.21.    ACS/MCS controller                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.22.    Anti-G suit valve/hose                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.23.    Defog valve                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.24.    Rain removal valve                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.25.    Air conditioning control switch                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.26.    Ducting                                                  *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.20.8.27.    Recirculation/electric/electronic cooling/vanaxial fan                                                                             -         -        -          -


                                                                                54
                                                                                                                                                                Attachment 3
                                                 GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.20.9.       Service Air Cycle Machine/Turbine                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.21.         PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.21.1.       Operational fundamentals
A3.21.1.1.     Aircraft pressurization system                                                                                                   B         B        -          -
A3.21.1.2.     Canopy seal system                                                                                                               B         B        -          -
A3.21.1.3.     Fuel tank pressurization                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.21.2.       Operational check
A3.21.2.1.     Pressurization system                                 *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.21.2.2.     Canopy seal system                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.21.2.3.     Fuel tank pressurization                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.21.3.       Troubleshoot
A3.21.3.1.     Pressurization system                                           *                                                                2b        b        -          -
A3.21.3.2.     Canopy seal system                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.21.3.3.     Fuel tank pressurization                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.21.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.       Remove components
A3.21.5.1.     Cabin pressure regulator/controller                   */R                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.2.     Cabin safety valve                                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.3.     Outflow valve                                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.4.     Pneumatic relay                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.5.     Cabin pressure altimeter                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.6.     Central equipment bay regulator                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.7.     Forward equipment bay regulator                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.8.     Aft equipment bay regulator                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.9.     Low altitude switch                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.10.    High altitude switch                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.11.    Check valve                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.21.5.12.    Filters                                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.       Install components
A3.21.6.1.     Cabin pressure regulator/controller                   */R                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.2.     Cabin safety valve                                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.3.     Outflow valve                                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.4.     Pneumatic relay                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.5.     Cabin pressure altimeter                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.6.     Central equipment bay regulator                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.7.     Forward equipment bay regulator                                                                                                  -         -        -          -



                                                                             55
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                 GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core             3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                      Tasks                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5           7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.21.6.8.     Aft equipment bay regulator                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.9.     Low altitude switch                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.10.    High altitude switch                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.11.    Check valve                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.21.6.12.    Filters                                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.22.         LIQUID COOLANT SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.22.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                            B         B        -          -
A3.22.2.       Troubleshoot                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.22.3.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.22.4.       Remove components
A3.22.4.1.     Pump                                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.22.4.2.     Heat exchanger                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.22.4.3.     Reservoir                                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.22.4.4.     Filter                                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.22.4.5.     Pressure regulator                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.22.4.6.     Test control panel                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.22.4.7.     Pressure/temperature Sensors                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.22.4.8.     Bypass valve                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.22.5.       Install components
A3.22.5.1.     Pump                                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.22.5.2.     Heat exchanger                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.22.5.3.     Reservoir                                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.22.5.4.     Filter                                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.22.5.5.     Pressure regulator                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.22.5.6.     Test control panel                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.22.5.7.     Pressure/temperature Sensors                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.22.5.8.     Bypass valve                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A3.22.6.       Service and recovery                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.23.         OXYGEN SYSTEMS
               TR: AFOSH standards; TOs 15X1-1, 42B5-1-2,                 42E1-
               1-1, applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.23.1.       Liquid oxygen system
A3.23.1.1.     Operational fundamentals/safety                                                                                                     B         B        -          -
A3.23.1.2.     Operational check system                               *                                                                            2b
A3.23.1.3.     Troubleshoot system                                                *                                                                2b
A3.23.1.4.     Inspect System Components                                          *                                                                -         b        -          -
A3.23.1.5.     Purge                                                                  *



                                                                              56
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                                  GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                                  Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                    3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.23.1.5.1.    System                                       *                                                                         -         b        -          -
A3.23.1.5.2.    Converter                                    *                                                                         2b        b        -          -
A3.23.1.6.      Remove components
A3.23.1.6.1.    Converter                                    */R                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.6.2.    Build-up/fill and vent valve                 *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.6.3.    Check valves                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.6.4.    Indicator/totalizer                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.6.5.    Distribution tubing/hoses                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.6.6.    Heat exchanger                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.6.7.    Oxygen regulator                             *                                                                         2b        b        -          -
A3.23.1.7.      Repair components
A3.23.1.7.1.    Converter                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.8.      Install components
A3.23.1.8.1.    Converter                                    */R                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.8.2.    Build-up/fill and vent valve                 *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.8.3.    Check valves                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.8.4.    Indicator/totalizer                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.8.5.    Distribution tubing/hoses                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.8.6.    Heat exchanger                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.8.7.    Oxygen regulator                             *                                                                         2b        b        -          -
A3.23.1.9.      Perform leak check                           *                                                                         2b        b        -          -
A3.23.1.10.     Clean components                             *                                                                         b         b        -          -
A3.23.1.11.     Drain system
A3.23.1.11.1.   Converter                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.23.1.12.     Service system
A3.23.1.12.1.   Converter                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.        Gaseous Oxygen System
A3.23.2.1.      Operational fundamentals/safety                                                                                        B         B        -          -
A3.23.2.2.      Operational check
A3.23.2.2.1.    Portable/Back-up oxygen system                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.2.2.    Oxygen Regulator                             *                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.2.3.    Selector Flow switch                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.2.4.    High/Low pressure systems                                                                                              2b        -        -          -
A3.23.2.3.      Troubleshoot
A3.23.2.3.1.    Portable/Back-up oxygen system                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.3.2.    Oxygen Regulator                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.3.3.    Selector Flow switch                                                                                                   -         -        -          -



                                                                     57
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 3
                                               GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.23.2.3.4.    High/Low pressure systems                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.4.      Inspect System Components                               *                                                                -         b        -          -
A3.23.2.5.      Remove components
A3.23.2.5.1.    Storage Bottle/Cylinder                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.5.2.    Service/drain valve                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.5.3.    Oxygen Regulator                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.5.4.    Check valve                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.5.5.    Shutoff valve                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.5.6.    Low pressure switch                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.5.7.    Distribution tubing/hoses                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.5.8.    Walk around bottle regulator                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.5.9.    Selector flow switch                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.6.      Bail Out Bottle Regulator                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.7.      Install components
A3.23.2.7.1.    Storage Bottle/Cylinder                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.7.2.    Service/drain valve                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.7.3.    Oxygen Regulator                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.7.4.    Check valve                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.7.5.    Shutoff valve                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.7.6.    Low pressure switch                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.7.7.    Distribution tubing/hoses                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.7.8.    Walk around bottle regulator                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.7.9.    Selector flow switch                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.8.      Bail Out Bottle Regulator                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.9.      Perform leak check                            *                                                                          2b        -        -          -
A3.23.2.10.     Clean components                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.11.     Purge system                                                                                                             -         b        -          -
A3.23.2.12.     Drain system                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.13.     Service system                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.14.     Bail Out Bottle
A3.23.2.14.1.   Service/Purge                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.14.2.   Repair                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.14.3.   Inspect                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.23.2.14.4.   Leak Check                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.        Self-generating oxygen system (MSOGS/OBOGS)
                TR: 8 series component TOs
A3.23.3.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                 B         B        -          -



                                                                      58
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 3
                                                GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.23.3.2.     Operational check                                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.3.     Troubleshoot                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.4.     Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.5.     Purge system                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.6.     Remove components
A3.23.3.6.1.   Concentrator                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.6.2.   Particle filter                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.6.3.   Controller                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.7.     Install components
A3.23.3.7.1.   Concentrator                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.7.2.   Particle filter                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.7.3.   Controller                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.8.     Perform leak check                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A3.23.3.9.     Clean components and tools                            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A3.24.         FUEL INERTING SYSTEM ON-BOARD INERT GAS
               GENERATING SYSTEM (OBIGGS)
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs, 8 series component TOs
A3.24.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.24.2.       Operational check                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A3.24.3.       Troubleshoot                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.24.4.       Inspect Concentrator                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.24.5.       Remove Concentrator                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.24.6.       Install Concentrator                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A3.24.7.       Perform leak checks                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.25.         MISCELLANEOUS SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft/equipment TOs, 8 series
               component TOs
A3.25.1.       Operational fundamentals
A3.25.1.1.     Aircrew eye respiratory protection system (AERP)                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.25.1.2.     Thermal flash/protection power sources                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A3.25.1.3.     Windshield wiper                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.25.1.4.     Wing anti-icing system                                                                                                           B         B        -          -
A3.25.1.5.     Cowl/Nacelle anti-ice                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.1.6.     Engine anti-ice                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.25.1.7.     De-icing                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A3.25.2.       Operational check
A3.25.2.1.     Aircrew eye respiratory protection system (AERP)                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A3.25.2.2.     Thermal flash/protection power sources                                                                                           -         -        -          -



                                                                             59
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.25.2.3.     Windshield wiper                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.2.4.     Wing anti-icing system                             */R                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.25.2.5.     Cowl/Nacelle anti-ice                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.25.2.6.     Engine anti-ice                                    */R                                                                      -         -        -          -

A3.25.2.7.     De-icing                                           */R                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.25.3.       Troubleshoot
A3.25.3.1.     Aircrew eye respiratory protection system (AERP)                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.3.2.     Thermal flash/protection power sources                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A3.25.3.3.     Windshield wiper                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.3.4.     Wing anti-icing system                                       */R                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.3.5.     Cowl/Nacelle anti-ice                                        */R                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.3.6.     Engine anti-ice                                              */R                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.3.7.     De-icing                                                     */R                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.4.       Inspect System Components                                    */R                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.5.       Remove Components
A3.25.5.1.     AERP control box                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.5.2.     Thermal Flash Conditioner                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.25.5.3.     Miscellaneous relay box                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.25.5.4.     Cowl/Nacelle anti-ice
A3.25.5.4.1.   Modulation/shutoff valve                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.25.5.4.2.   Temp Sensor/thermal switch                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.25.5.4.3.   Controller                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.25.5.5.     De-ice
A3.25.5.5.1.   Boots                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A3.25.5.5.2.   Sequence Valve                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A3.25.6.       Repair components
A3.25.6.1.     Miscellaneous relay box                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.25.7.       Install components
A3.25.7.1.     AERP control box                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A3.25.7.2.     Thermal Flash Conditioner                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A3.25.7.3.     Miscellaneous relay box                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.25.7.4.     Cowl/Nacelle anti-ice
A3.25.7.4.1.   Modulation/shutoff valve                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A3.25.7.4.2.   Temp Sensor/thermal switch                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.25.7.4.3.   Controller                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A3.25.7.5.     De-ice
A3.25.7.5.1.   Boots                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -



                                                                        60
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 3
                                               GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core        3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                          Tasks                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A3.25.7.5.2.   Sequence Valve                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A3.25.7.6.     Bench Check Miscellaneous Relay Box                                                                                -         -        -          -




                                                                61
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 3
    GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                 62
                                     Attachment 3
                                                         B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                            2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                            Tasks                                            Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                   A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                                5        7     Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

ATTACHMENT 4
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, personnel assigned to maintain B-2 aircraft will perform the tasks and knowledge in attachment 4.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager
HQ ACC/A4QT. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A4.1.           AIRCRAFT FAMILIARIZATION
                TR: 1B-2A-2-00GV-00-1, 1B-2A-2-01JG SERIES,
                1B-2A-2-05GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-05JG SERIES
A4.1.1.         Engine Air Intake and Exhaust                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.1.2.         High Intensity Sound                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.1.3.         Turbine Plane of Rotation                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.1.4.         Antenna Radiation                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.1.5.         Ground Handling of Aircraft                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.1.6.         Hot Brakes                                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.1.7.         Perform Hardness Critical Procedures                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.1.8.         Perform Observable Critical Procedures                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.1.9.         Operate Crew Entry Door                                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.1.10.        Operate Aft Equipment Bay Door                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.1.11.        Operate Weapons Bay Doors                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.1.12.        Open / Close Engine AMAD Bay Doors                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.1.13.        Open / Close Hyd / ECS Bay Doors                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.1.14.        Apply / Remove External Electrical Power                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.1.15.        Apply / Remove Cooling Air                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.1.16.        Apply / Remove External Bleed Air                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.1.17.        Ensure Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -

A4.2.           ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL SYSTEM
                TR: 1B-2A-2-21GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-21JG SERIES,
                and 1B-2A-2-40JG SERIES
A4.2.1.         Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.2.2.         Inspect                                                              *                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.2.3.         Troubleshoot                                                         *                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.2.4.         Perform ECS Operational Check                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.5.         Perform ECS Leak Checks                                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.6.         Perform ECS Power Up / Power Down                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.7.         Perform Display Cooling Fan Operational Check               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.8.         Perform Crew Compartment Pressure Test and Leak Check *                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.2.9.         Perform ECS Ground Readiness Test                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -



                                                                                    63
                                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 4
                                                      B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                  5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.2.10.       ECS Special Maintenance Requirements
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21GS-00-1
A4.2.11.       Purge EGW Wetted Parts                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.2.12.       Outflow Valve Switch Adjustment                         *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.2.13.       Remove ECS Control Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-10-1
A4.2.13.1.     AFT Avionics Cooling Fan Power Contactor       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.13.2.     System Controller                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.13.3.     ECS Control Panel                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.14.       Install ECS Control Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-10-1
A4.2.14.1.     AFT Avionics Cooling Fan Power Contactor       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.14.2.     System Controller                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.14.3.     ECS Control Panel                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.15.       Remove ECS Recalculated Air Sub-System
               Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-20-1, -2
A4.2.15.1.     Ground Air Inlets                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.2.15.2.     Ground Air Outlets                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.2.15.3.     Check Valves                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.2.15.4.     Avionics Cooling Fan                           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.15.5.     Avionics Cooling Fan Assembly Filter                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.2.15.6.     Avionics Emergency Cooling Valve                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.15.7.     Avionics Pressure Rise Sensor                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.15.8.     Avionics Low Pressure Sensor                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.15.9.     Avionics Air Over temperature Sensor                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.2.16.       Install ECS Recalculated Air Sub-System
               Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-20-1, -2
A4.2.16.1.     Ground Air Inlets                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.2.16.2.     Ground Air Outlets                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.2.16.3.     Check Valves                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.2.16.4.     Avionics Cooling Fan                           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.16.5.     Avionics Cooling Fan Assembly Filter                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.2.16.6.     Avionics Emergency Cooling Valve                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.16.7.     Avionics Pressure Rise Sensor                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.16.8.     Avionics Low Pressure Sensor                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.16.9.     Avionics Air Over temperature Sensor                                                                                      -         -        -          -




                                                                      64
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                                       B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                   5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.2.17.       Remove ECS Pressurization Sub-System
               Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-30-1
A4.2.17.1.     Crew Compartment Outflow Valves                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.17.2.     Crew Compartment Safety Valve                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.17.3.     Outflow Valve Control                           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.18.       Install ECS Pressurization Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-30-1
A4.2.18.1.     Crew Compartment Outflow Valves                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.18.2.     Crew Compartment Safety Valve                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.18.3.     Outflow Valve Control                           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.19.       Remove ECS Warm Air Sub-System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-40-1
A4.2.19.1.     Check Valves                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.2.19.2.     Temp Control Valve                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.19.3.     Crossover Valve                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.2.19.4.     Precooler Assembly                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.2.19.5.     Temp Sensor                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.2.19.6.     Defog Diverter Valve                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.2.19.7.     Defog Heat Exchanger                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.2.19.8.     Defog Temp Control Valve                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.2.20.       Install ECS Warm Air Sub-System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-40-1
A4.2.20.1.     Check Valves                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.2.20.2.     Temp Control Valve                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.20.3.     Crossover Valve                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.2.20.4.     Precooler Assembly                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.2.20.5.     Temp Sensor                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.2.20.6.     Defog Diverter Valve                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.2.20.7.     Defog Heat Exchanger                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.2.20.8.     Defog Temp Control Valve                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.       Remove ECS Cooling Sub-System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-50-1, -2
A4.2.21.1.     Weapons Air Flow Control Valve                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.2.     Check Valves                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.3.     Conditioned Air Intercooler Assembly                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.4.     Conditioned Air Cycle Pack                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.5.     Conditioned Air Cycle Machine                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.6.     Conditioned Air Water Extractor                                                                                            -         -        -          -


                                                                       65
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 4
                                                         B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                     5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.2.21.7.     Conditioned Air Temp Control Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.8.     Conditioned Air Condenser Relief Valve                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.9.     Conditioned Air Filter                            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.10.    Conditioned Air Flow Control Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.11.    Conditioned Air Flow Distribution Valve                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.12.    Conditioned Air Flow Sensor                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.13.    Foot Warmer Diffuser                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.14.    Equipment Air Cycle Pack                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.15.    Equipment Air Flow Control Valve                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.16.    Equipment Air Cycle Machine                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.17.    Equipment Air Bypass Valve                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.2.21.18.    Equipment Air Sink Heat Exchanger                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.       Install ECS Cooling Sub-System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-22JG-50-1, -2
A4.2.22.1.     Weapons Air Flow Control Valve                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.2.     Check Valves                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.3.     Conditioned Air Intercooler Assembly                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.4      Conditioned Air Cycle Pack                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.5.     Conditioned Air Cycle Machine                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.6.     Conditioned Air Water Extractor                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.7.     Conditioned Air Temp Control Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.8.     Conditioned Air Condenser Relief Valve                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.9.     Conditioned Air Filter                            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.10.    Conditioned Air Flow Control Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.11.    Conditioned Air Flow Distribution Valve                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.12.    Conditioned Air Flow Sensor                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.13.    Foot Warmer Diffuser                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.14.    Equipment Air Cycle Pack                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.15.    Equipment Air Flow Control Valve                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.16.    Equipment Air Cycle Machine                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.17.    Equipment Air Bypass Valve                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.2.22.18.    Equipment Air Sink Heat Exchanger                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.2.23.       ECS Liquid Cooling Checks
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-80-1, -2, -3, -4
A4.2.23.1.     LCS Fluid Replacement and Leak Check              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.23.2.     LCS Fluid Sampling                                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.23.3.     LCS Fluid Air Entrapment Check                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.23.4.     EGW Fluid Replacement and Leak Check              *                                                                          -         -        -          -


                                                                         66
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                     B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                      5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.2.23.5.     EGW Fluid Sampling                                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.23.6.     Sink Heat Exchanger and Air Cycle Pack EGW         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               Fluid Replacement and Leak Check
A4.2.23.7.     EGW Fluid Air Entrapment Check                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.23.8.     DMS Fluid Replacement and Leak Check               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.23.9.     DMS Fluid Sampling                                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.23.10.    DMS Fluid Air Entrapment Check                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.       Remove ECS Liquid Cooling Sub-System
               Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-80-1, -2, -3, -4
A4.2.24.1.     LCS Pump Package                                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.2.     LCS Heat Exchanger                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.3.     LCS Coolant Pressure Relief Valve                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.4.     LCS Overboard Pressure Relief Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.5.     LCS Coolant Overflow Container                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.6.     EGW Pump Package                                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.7.     FWD EGW Heat Exchanger                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.8.     CTB EGW Heat Exchanger                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.9.     Aft EGW Heat Exchanger                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.10.    DMS Pump Package                                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.24.11.    DMS Heat Exchange                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.       Install ECS Liquid Cooling Sub-System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-80-1, -2, -3, -4
A4.2.25.1.     LCS Pump Package                                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.2.     LCS Heat Exchanger                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.3.     LCS Coolant Pressure Relief Valve                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.4.     LCS Overboard Pressure Relief Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.5.     LCS Coolant Overflow Container                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.6.     EGW Pump Package                                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.7.     FWD EGW Heat Exchanger                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.8.     CTB EGW Heat Exchanger                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.9.     Aft EGW Heat Exchanger                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.10.    DMS Pump Package                                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.2.25.11.    DMS Heat Exchange                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.2.26.       Repair / Overhaul / Bench Check Components
               TR:8C, 8D, and 15A SERIES
A4.2.26.1.     ECS Control Panel                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.2.26.2.     Air Conditioning Air Cycle Pack                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.2.26.3.     Liquid Media Cooling Switch Panels                                                                                            -         -        -          -

                                                                          67
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 4
                                                       B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                   5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.2.26.4.     Conditioned Air Filter                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.2.26.5.     Desiccant Filter                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.2.26.6.     Conditioned Air Exhaust Port                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.2.26.7.     Emergency Cooling Air Valve                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.2.26.8.     Outflow Valve                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.3.          ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-24GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-24JG SERIES
A4.3.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.3.2.        AC Operational Check                            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.3.        DC Operational Check                            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.4.        External Power Operational Check                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.5.        Chip Detector Checkout                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.3.6.        Inspect                                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.3.7.        Troubleshoot                                             *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.3.8.        Perform Electrical System Special Maintenance
               Requirements
               TR: 1B-2A-2-24GS-00-1
A4.3.8.1.      Circuit Breaker Panel Maintenance                        *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.3.8.2.      AC CB Panel Differential Protection Current                                                                                -         -        -          -
               Transformer Assembly (DPCTA) Maintenance
A4.3.8.3.      Diode Panel Maintenance                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.3.8.4.      Power Contactor Maintenance                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.3.8.5.      Bus Diode Maintenance                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.3.8.6.      MUX Bus Coupler Maintenance                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.3.8.7.      Converter Regulator (CR) Support Assembly                                                                                  -         -        -          -
               Maintenance
A4.3.9.        Remove AC System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-24JG-20-1
A4.3.9.1.      IDG                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.3.9.2.      Generator Control Unit                          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.9.3.      Line Contactor                                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.9.4.      Bus Contactor                                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.9.5.      Current Control Transformer Assembly (CCTA)                                                                                -         -        -          -

A4.3.9.6.      Differential Protection Current Transformer                                                                                -         -        -          -
               Assembly (DPCTA)
A4.3.9.7.      IDG Chip Detector                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.9.8.      Bus Control Unit                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.3.10.       Install AC System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-24JG-20-1


                                                                       68
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 4
                                                       B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                   5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.3.10.1.     IDG                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.3.10.2.     Generator Control Unit                          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.10.3.     Line Contactor                                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.10.4.     Bus Contactor                                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.10.5.     Current Control Transformer Assembly (CCTA)                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.3.10.6.     Differential Protection Current Transformer                                                                                -         -        -          -
               Assembly (DPCTA)
A4.3.10.7.     IDG Chip Detector                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.10.8.     Bus Control Unit                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.3.11.       Remove DC System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-24JG-30-1
A4.3.11.1.     Transformer Rectifier                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.3.11.2.     Battery                                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.11.3.     Battery Charger                                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.11.4.     Battery Circuit Breaker                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.3.11.5.     DC Bus Fuse                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.3.11.6.     APU Generator Control Unit                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.11.7.     APU Permanent Magnet Generator                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.3.11.8.     Converter Regulator                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.3.11.9.     AMAD Permanent Magnet Generator                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.3.12.       Install DC System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-24JG-30-1
A4.3.12.1.     Transformer Rectifier                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.3.12.2.     Battery                                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.12.3.     Battery Charger                                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.12.4.     Battery Circuit Breaker                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.3.12.5.     DC Bus Fuse                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.3.12.6.     APU Generator Control Unit                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.12.7.     APU Permanent Magnet Generator                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.3.12.8.     Converter Regulator                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.3.12.9.     AMAD Permanent Magnet Generator                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.3.13.       Remove External Power System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-24JG-40-1
A4.3.13.1.     External Power DPCTA                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.3.13.2.     External Power Contactor                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.3.13.3.     External Power Receptacle                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.3.14.       Install External Power System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-24JG-40-1
A4.3.14.1.     External Power DPCTA                                                                                                       -         -        -          -

                                                                       69
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 4
                                                        B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                      A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                    5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.3.14.2.     External Power Contactor                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.3.14.3.     External Power Receptacle                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.3.15.       Remove Electrical Load Distribution System
               Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-24JG-50-1
A4.3.15.1.     DC Bus Tie Relay                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.3.15.2.     Electrical Power Control Panel                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.15.3.     Ground Power Control Panel                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.15.4.     Air Undercool Sensor                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.3.15.5.     Undercool Warning Bell                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.3.15.6.     Power Control Unit                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.15.7.     Processor Control Panel                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.3.16.       Install Electrical Load Distribution System
               Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-24JG-50-1
A4.3.16.1.     DC Bus Tie Relay                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.3.16.2.     Electrical Power Control Panel                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.16.3.     Ground Power Control Panel                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.16.4.     Air Undercool Sensor                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.3.16.5.     Undercool Warning Bell                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.3.16.6.     Power Control Unit                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.3.16.7.     Processor Control Panel                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.3.17.       Repair / Overhaul / Bench Check Components
               TR: 8C, and 8D SERIES
A4.3.17.1.     Electrical Power Control Panel                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.3.17.2.     Ground Power Control Panel                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.3.17.3.     Transformer Rectifier                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.3.17.4.     Diode Panel                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.3.17.5.     Battery                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.4.          REPAIR / OVERHAUL / BENCH CHECK
               EQUIPMENT/FURNISHINGS SYSTEM
               COMPONENTS
               TR: 8D and 13A SERIES
A4.4.1.        Crew Entry Hatch Control Panel                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.4.2.        Sustenance Container                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.5.          FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-26GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-26JG SERIES
A4.5.1.        Operational Fundamental                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.5.2.        Fire Protection Operational Checkout             *                                                                          -         -        -          -

A4.5.3.        Extinguishing Operational Checkout                                                                                          -         -        -          -


                                                                        70
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 4
                                                      B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                    Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                        5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.5.4.        Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.5.5.        Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.5.6.        Fire Protection Special Maintenance Requirements
               TR: 1B-2A-2-26GS-00-1
A4.5.6.1.      Fire and Overheat Connector Removal / Installation   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.7.        Remove Fire Protection System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-26JG-10-1
A4.5.7.1.      Fire Master Switch                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.5.7.2.      Fire Warning Leak Detection Terminal Protection          Device                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.5.7.3.      Leak Detector Controller                             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.7.4.      Fire and Aft Tailpipe O/H Sensor                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.7.5.      Leak Detector                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.5.8.        Install Fire Protection System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-26JG-10-1
A4.5.8.1.      Fire Master Switch                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.5.8.2.      Fire Warning Leak Detection Terminal Protection          Device                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.5.8.3.      Leak Detector Controller                             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.8.4.      Fire and Aft Tailpipe O/H Sensor                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.8.5.      Leak Detector                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.5.9.        Remove Fire Extinguishing System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-26JG-20-1, -2, -3
A4.5.9.1.      Fire Extinguishing Bottle                            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.9.2.      Engine Fire Extinguishing Head and Bottle            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               Discharge Cartridge
A4.5.9.3.      Agent Discharge Switch                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.9.4.      Ground Alert Horn                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.5.9.5.      ENG/APU Fire Switch                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.5.9.6.      Initiator                                            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.9.7.      Fire Extinguishing Relay Panel                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.5.9.8.      APU Discharge Head and APU Discharge Cartridge       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.9.9       Butterfly Valve                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.5.10.       Install Fire Extinguishing System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-26JG-20-1, -2, -3
A4.5.10.1.     Fire Extinguishing Bottle                            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.10.2.     Engine Fire Extinguishing Head and Bottle            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               Discharge Cartridge
A4.5.10.3.     Agent Discharge Switch                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.10.4.     Ground Alert Horn                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.5.10.5.     ENG/APU Fire Switch                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.5.10.6.     Initiator                                            *                                                                          -         -        -          -

                                                                            71
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 4
                                                      B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                     5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.5.10.7.     Fire Extinguishing Relay Panel                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.5.10.8.     APU Discharge Head and APU Discharge Cartridge    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.5.10.9.     Butterfly Valve                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.5.11.       Repair / Overhaul / Bench Check Components
               TR: 8D, and 15A SERIES
A4.5.11.1.     Fire Extinguisher Relay Panel                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.5.11.2.     Terminal Protection Device Housing Assembly                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.6.          REPAIR / OVERHAUL / BENCH CHECK FLIGHT
               CONTROL SYSTEM COMPONENTS
               TR: 8D SERIES
A4.6.1.        Flight Control Panel                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.7.          ICE AND RAIN PROTECTION SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-30GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-30JG SERIES
A4.7.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.7.2.        Windshield AI/RR Operational Checkout                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.7.3.        Windshield AI/RR Leak Check                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.7.4.        Inspect                                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.7.5.        Troubleshoot                                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.7.6.        Remove Ice / Rain Protection System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-30JG-40-1
A4.7.6.1.      Air Pressure Regulator Shutoff Valve                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.7.6.2.      Air Overtemp Shutoff Valve                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.7.6.3.      Nozzle                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.7.6.4.      Air Temp Sensor                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.7.7.        Install Ice / Rain Protection System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-30JG-40-1
A4.7.7.1.      Air Pressure Regulator Shutoff Valve                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.7.7.2.      Air Overtemp Shutoff Valve                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.7.7.3.      Nozzle                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.7.7.4.      Air Temp Sensor                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.8.          CONTROL & DISPLAY SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-31JG-10-1
A4.8.1.        Remove/Install Disk Cartridge                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.9.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-32GS-00-1
A4.9.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.9.2.        Inspect                                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.9.3.        Troubleshoot                                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.9.4.        Remove Landing Gear System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-32JG SERIES

                                                                         72
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                        B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                      A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                    5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.9.4.1.      Landing Gear Control Assembly                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.9.4.2.      Proximity Sensors                                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.9.4.3.      Proximity Sensor Logic Unit                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.9.5.        Install Landing Gear System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-32JG SERIES
A4.9.5.1.      Landing Gear Control Assembly                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.9.5.2.      Proximity Sensors                                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.9.5.3.      Proximity Sensor Logic Unit                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.9.6.        Repair / Overhaul / Bench Check Landing Gear
               System Components
               TR: 8C, 8D, 9H, and 16W SERIES
A4.9.6.1.      Landing Gear Control Panel                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.9.6.2.      Emergency Landing Gear Control Panel                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.9.6.3.      Door Lock Selector Valve                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.9.6.4.      Isolation Valve Selector                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.9.6.5.      Accumulator Service Crew Entry/Brake Panel                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.10.         LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2-33GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-33JG SERIES
A4.10.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.10.2.       Crew Compartment Lighting Operational Checkout   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.3.       Service Lighting Operational Checkouts           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.4.       Exterior Lighting Operational Checkout           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.5.       Emergency Lighting Operational Checkout          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.6.       Inspect                                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.10.7.       Troubleshoot                                              *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.10.8.       Remove Crew Compartment Lighting Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-33JG-10-1, -2
A4.10.8.1.     Warning Caution Advisory Panel                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.8.2.     Master Warning/Master Caution Switch                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.10.8.3.     Floodlights                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.10.8.4.     Utility Lights                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.10.8.5.     Dimmers                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.10.8.6.     Lighting Control Panel                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.10.8.7.     Entry Light Switch                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.8.8.     Time delay                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.10.9.       Install Crew Compartment Lighting Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-33JG-10-1, -2
A4.10.9.1.     Warning Caution Advisory Panel                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.9.2.     Master Warning/Master Caution Switch                                                                                        -         -        -          -


                                                                        73
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 4
                                                      B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                   5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.10.9.3.     Floodlights                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.10.9.4.     Utility Lights                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.10.9.5.     Dimmers                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.10.9.6.     Lighting Control Panels                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.10.9.7.     Entry Light Switch                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.10.9.8.     Time Delay                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.10.10.      Remove Service Lighting Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-33JG-30-1
A4.10.10.1.    Weapons Bay Lights                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.10.10.2.    Main/Nose Wheel Well Lights                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.10.10.3.    Aft Equipment Bay Light                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.10.10.4.    Right Radar Bay Light                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.10.11.      Install Service Lighting Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-33JG-30-1
A4.10.11.1.    Weapons Bay Lights                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.10.11.2.    Main/Nose Wheel Well Lights                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.10.11.3.    Aft Equipment Bay Light                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.10.11.4.    Right Radar Bay Light                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.10.12.      Remove Exterior Lighting Components
               TR:1B-2A-2-33JG-40-1
A4.10.12.1.    Landing-Taxi Light                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.10.12.2.    A/R Lead-In Floodlight                          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.12.3.    Inlet Floodlight                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.10.12.4.    Nacelle Floodlight                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.10.12.5.    Wing Tip Light                                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.12.6     Dimmer                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.10.12.7.    Wing Tip Power Supply                           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.13.      Install Exterior Lighting Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-33JG-40-1
A4.10.13.1.    Landing-Taxi Light                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.10.13.2.    A/R Lead-In Floodlight                          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.13.3.    Inlet Floodlight                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.10.13.4.    Nacelle Floodlight                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.10.13.5.    Wing Tip Light                                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.13.6.    Dimmer                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.10.13.7.    Wing Tip Power Supply                           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.10.14.      Remove/ Install Emergency Lighting Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-33JG-50-1
A4.10.14.1.    Emergency Light                                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -

                                                                       74
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 4
                                                        B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                            Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                    5          7   Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.10.15.      Repair / Overhaul / Bench Check Components
               TR: 8A SERIES
A4.10.15.1.    Power Supply Wing Tip Lighting                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.10.15.2.    Light Assembly A/C Position and Strobe           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.10.15.3.    Pilots Lighting Control Panel                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.10.15.4.    Overhead Lighting Control Panel                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.11.         OXYGEN SYSTEM
               TR:1B-2A-2-35GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-35JG,                  1B-
               2A-2-40JG SERIES
A4.11.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.11.2.       Primary Oxygen Operational Checkout              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.3.       Back-up Oxygen System Operational Checkout       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.4.       Oxygen System Purge                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.5.       BOS Cylinder Assembly Depressurization           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.6.       Oxygen System Selective GRT                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.11.7.       Inspect                                                     *                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.11.8.       Troubleshoot                                                *                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.11.9.       Oxygen System Special Maintenance Requirements
               TR: 1B-2A-2-35GS-00-1
A4.11.9.1.     Service EOS Cylinder Assembly (Off- Equipment)   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.      Remove Oxygen System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-35JG-10-1, -2
A4.11.10.1.    Oxygen Concentrator                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.2.    Inlet Filter                                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.3.    Outlet Filter                                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.4.    Electronic Control Unit                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.5.    Composition Monitor                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.6.    OGADS Heater Control Unit                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.7.    OGADS Sample Filter                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.8.    Oxygen Breathing Regulator                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.9.    Oxygen Control Panel                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.10.   BOS Cylinder Assembly                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.11.   BOS Release Valve                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.11.10.12.   .EOS Cylinder                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.      Install Oxygen System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-35JG-10-1, -2
A4.11.11.1.    Oxygen Concentrator                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.2.    Inlet Filter                                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.3.    Outlet Filter                                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -


                                                                          75
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                      B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                  5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.11.11.4.    Electronic Control Unit                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.5.    Composition Monitor                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.6.    OGADS Heater Control Unit                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.7.    OGADS Sample Filter                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.8.    Oxygen Breathing Regulator                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.9.    Oxygen Control Panel                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.10.   BOS Cylinder Assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.11.   BOS Release Valve                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.11.11.12.   EOS Cylinder                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.11.12.      Repair / Overhaul / Bench Check Components
               TR: 15X SERIES
A4.11.12.1.    Oxygen System Control Panel                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.12.         PNEUMATIC SYSTEM
               TR:1B-2A-2-36GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-36JG SERIES
A4.12.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.12.2.       Bleed Air Control Panel Checkout                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.12.3.       Inspect                                                 *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.12.4.       Troubleshoot                                            *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.12.5.       Pneumatic System Special Maintenance
               Requirements
               TR: 1B-2A-2-36GS-00-1
A4.12.5.1.     5TH and 9TH Primary Pressure Regulator                                                                                    -         -        -          -
               Switch Checkout
A4.12.6.       Remove/Install Pneumatic System Components
               TR: 1B-2A-2-36JG-10-1, 36JG-20-1
A4.12.6.1.     5TH Primary Pressure Regulator Valve           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.12.6.2.     Bleed Air Check Valve                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.12.6.3.     Isolation Valve                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A4.12.6.4.     Ejector Valve                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A4.12.6.5.     Bleed Air Control Panel                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.12.6.6.     9th Primary Pressure Regulator                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.12.6.7.     Secondary Pressure Regulator                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.12.6.8.     Bleed Air Pressure Sensor                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.12.7.       Repair / Overhaul / Bench Check Components
               TR: 8D, and 9P SERIES
A4.12.7.1.     Bleed Air Control Panel                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.12.7.2.     Valves                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.13.         ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC AND
               MULTIPURPOSE SYSTEM COMPONENTS
               TR: 1B-2A-A-39GS-00-1 / 39JG SERIES


                                                                      76
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 4
                                                      B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                   5         7     Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.13.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.13.2.       Inspect                                                   *                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.13.3.       Troubleshoot                                              *                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.13.4.       Remove Electrical/Electronic Panels
               TR: 1B-2A-2-39JG-40-1, 1B-2A-39JG-40-2
A4.13.4.1.     Relay Panels                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.13.4.2.     APU/Engine Start Control Panel                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.13.4.3.     Alert Switch Control Panel                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.13.4.4.     Brake/Landing Light Control Panel                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.13.4.5.     Diode Panel                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.13.5.6.     Relay Power Panel                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.13.6.       Install Electrical/Electronic Panels
               TR: 1B-2A-2-39JG-40-1 / 1B-2A-2-39JG-40-2
A4.13.6.1.     Relay Panels                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.13.6.2.     APU/Engine Start Control Panel                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.13.6.3.     Alert Switch Control Panel                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.13.6.4.     Brake/Landing Light Control Panel                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.13.6.5.     Diode Panel                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.13.6.6.     Relay Power Panel                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.13.7.       Repair / Overhaul / Bench Check Components
               TR: 8A, 8D, and 8R SERIES
A4.13.7.1.     Relay Panels                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.13.7.2.     Alert Switch Control Panel                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.13.7.3.     APU/Engine Start Control Panel                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.13.7.4.     Brake/Landing Light Control Panel                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.13.7.5.     Diode Panel                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A4.13.7.6.     Relay Power Panel                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A4.14.         Repair / Overhaul / Bench Check Auxiliary Power
               System Components
               TR: 8D, and 9P SERIES
A4.14.1.       Check Valves                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.14.2.       APU Maintenance Panel                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A4.14.3.       Alert Arm Control Panel                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A4.15.         REPAIR / OVERHAUL / BENCH CHECK POWER
               PLANT SYSTEM COMPONENTS
               TR: 8D SERIES
A4.15.1.       Engine Auxiliary Inlet Doors Control Panel                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.16.         REPAIR / OVERHAUL / BENCH CHECK
               ENGINE AIR SYSTEM COMPONENTS
               TR: 15E SERIES

                                                                       77
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                       B2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core 3. Certification For OJT                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A         B          C           D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee     Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)      (1)          (2)
                                                                   5        7    Start   Complete   Initials    Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course      CDC

A4.16.1.       Ice Detector                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A4.17.         REPAIR / OVERHAUL / BENCH CHECK
               ENGINE CONTROL SYSTEM COMPONENTS
               TR: 5E, and 8C SERIES
A4.17.1.       Throttle Quadrant/Grips                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.17.2.       Alternate Throttle Panel                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A4.18.         REPAIR / OVERHAUL / BENCH CHECK
               ACCESSORY GEARBOX SYSTEM
               COMPONENTS
               TR: 5L, and 8D SERIES
A4.18.1.       AMAD Oil Readout Panel                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.18.2.       Accessory Drive Control Panel                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A4.18.3.       Chip Detector Power Module                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A4.18.4.       Fan/Duct Assembly                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A4.19.         REPAIR / OVERHAUL / BENCH CHECK
               CREW ESCAPE & SAFETY SYSTEM
               COMPONENTS
               TR: 8D SERIES
A4.19.1.       Seat Adjustment Control Panel Assembly                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A4.20.         CENTER WING SKIN/PANELS
               TR: 1B-2A-2-53JG-30-2
A4.20.1.       Remove/Install Crew Station Liners                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A4.21.         LITHIUM ION BATTERY MAINTENANCE
               TR: 33A1-3-629-1, 8D2-65-2
A4.21.1.       Operate Battery Electronics Test Set (BETS)     *                                                                         -         -         -           -
A4.21.2.       Discharge Lithium Ion Battery                   *                                                                         -         -         -           -
A4.21.3.       Discharge Lithium Ion Battery                   *                                                                         -         -         -           -
A4.21.4.       Remove Lithium Ion System Components            *                                                                         -         -         -           -
A4.21.5.       Install Lithium Ion System Components           *                                                                         -         -         -           -
A4.21.6.       Inspect Lithium Ion System Components           *                                                                         -         -         -           -
A4.22.         POWER SUPPLIES
               TR: Applicable TOs
A4.22.1.       Operate DC power supply                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A4.22.2.       Operate AC power supply                                                                                                    -         -        -          -




                                                                       78
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 4
                                                         C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                            2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                            Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                    A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                    3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                 5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 5
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, personnel assigned to maintain C-5 aircraft will perform the tasks and knowledge in attachment 5.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ AMC/ A4MMT,
402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; or call DSN 779-4787. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training
Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A5.1.            AC POWER SYSTEM
                 TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.1.1.          Operational fundamentals                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.1.2.          System Operational check
A5.1.2.1.        Main AC generator system                                    */R                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.1.2.2         Emergency generator system                                  *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.1.2.3.        APU                                                         *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.1.2.4.        60 Hertz system                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.1.3.          Troubleshoot system
A5.1.3.1.        Main AC power generator                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.1.3.2.        Emergency generator system                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.1.3.3.        APU                                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.1.4.          Inspect System components
A5.1.4.1.        AC Power Generator                                                   */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.1.4.2.        Emergency Generator                                                  */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.1.4.3.        APU                                                                  */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.1.4.4.        60 Hertz                                                             */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.1.5.          Remove components
A5.1.5.1.        CSD                                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.1.5.2.        Generator                                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.1.5.3.        Emergency Generator                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.1.5.4.        GCU                                                         *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.1.5.5.        Bus Protection Panels                                       *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.1.5.6.        Load Controllers                                            *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.1.5.7.        Bus Tie/Generator Line Contactors                           *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.1.5.8.        Power Contactors                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.1.5.9.        Current transformer                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.1.5.10.       Power Transfer Relays                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.1.6.          Repair components
A5.1.6.1.        CSD                                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.1.6.2.        AC Generator                                                                                                                           -        -        -          -



                                                                                     79
                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 5
                                                   C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                            2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                   A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.1.6.3.      Emergency Generator                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.1.6.4.      GCU                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.1.6.5.      Bus Protection Panels                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.1.6.6.      Load Controllers                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.1.6.7.      Bus Tie/Generator Line Contactors                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.1.6.8.      Power Contactors                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.1.6.9.      Power Transfer Relays                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.1.7.        Install components
A5.1.7.1.      CSD                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.1.7.2.      AC Generator                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.1.7.3.      Emergency Generator                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.1.7.4.      GCU                                          *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.1.7.5.      Bus Protection Panels                        *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.1.7.6.      Load Controllers                             *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.1.7.7.      Bus Tie/Generator Line Contactors            *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.1.7.8.      Power Contactors                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.1.7.9.      Current transformer                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.1.7.10.     Power Transfer Relays                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.1.8.        Bench check
A5.1.8.1.      CSD                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.1.8.2.      AC Generator                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.1.8.3.      Emergency Generator                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.1.8.4.      GCU                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.1.8.5.      Bus Protection Panels                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.1.8.6.      Load Controllers                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.1.8.7.      Bus Tie/Generator Line Contactors                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.1.8.8.      Power Contactors                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.1.8.9.      Power Transfer Relays                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.2.          DC POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.2.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.2.2.        Operational Check System                     */R                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.2.3.        Troubleshoot System                                    */R                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.2.4.        Inspect System Components                              */R                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.2.5.        Remove components
A5.2.5.1.      Battery                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.2.5.2.      Transformer rectifier                                                                                                   -        -        -          -



                                                                    80
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 5
                                                    C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.2.5.3.      Gauges                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.2.5.4.      Reverse current relays                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.2.5.5.      Bus relays                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.2.5.6.      Panels                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.2.6.        Repair components
A5.2.6.1.      Transformer rectifier                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.2.6.2.      Bus relays                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.2.6.3.      Panels                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.2.6.4.      Reverse current relays                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.2.7.        Install components
A5.2.7.1.      Battery                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.2.7.2.      Transformer rectifier                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.2.7.3.      Gauges                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.2.7.4.      Reverse current relays                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.2.7.5.      Bus relays                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.2.7.6.      Panels                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.2.8.        Bench check
A5.2.8.1.      Transformer rectifier                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.2.8.2.      Reverse current relays                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.2.8.3.      Bus relays                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.2.8.4.      Panels                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.3.          EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.3.2.        Operational Check System                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.3.3.        Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.3.4.        Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.3.5.        Remove components
A5.3.5.1.      Line contactors                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.3.5.2.      Ext power receptacle                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.3.5.3.      Current transformer                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.3.6.        Install components
A5.3.6.1.      Line contactors                                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A5.3.6.2.      Ext power receptacle                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A5.3.6.3.      Current transformer                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A5.3.7.        Bench Ck/Repair Line Contactors                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A5.4.          APU POWER SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-1, Applicable aircraft T.O.s


                                                                     81
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 5
                                                    C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A5.4.2.        Operational Check System                      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A5.4.3.        Service Auxilary Power Unit (APU) with oil                                                                               -         -         -         -
A5.4.4.        Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                                -         -         -         -
A5.4.5.        Inspect System Components                               *                                                                -         -         -         -
A5.4.6.        Remove APU GCU                                *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A5.4.7.        Install APU GCU                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.4.8.        Bench Ck/Repair APU GCU                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.5.          LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.5.2.        Operational Check System
A5.5.2.1.      Interior                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.5.2.2.      Exterior                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.5.2.3.      Emergency                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.5.3.        Troubleshoot system
A5.5.3.1.      Interior                                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.5.3.2.      Exterior                                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.5.3.3.      Emergency                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.5.4.        Inspect System Components
A5.5.4.1.      Interior                                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.5.4.2.      Exterior                                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.5.4.3.      Emergency                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.        Remove Components
A5.5.5.1.      Strobe light                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.2.      Navigation/formation                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.3.      Anti-collision                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.4.      Retractable landing light                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.5.      Taxi light                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.6.      Map/chart holder                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.7.      Emergency exit light                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.8.      Controllers                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.9.      Transformers                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.10.     Leading edge light                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.11.     Advisory lights                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.12.     Flood lights                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.13.     Power supply                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -



                                                                     82
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 5
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.5.5.14.     Light cards                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.15.     Relays                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.5.5.16.     IFR/Slipway light                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.5.6.        Repair Components
A5.5.6.1.      Strobe light                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.5.6.2.      Navigation/formation                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.5.6.3.      Anti-collision                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.5.6.4.      Retractable landing light                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.5.6.5.      Taxi light                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.5.6.6.      Map/chart holder                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.5.6.7.      Emergency exit light                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.5.6.8.      Leading edge light                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.5.6.9.      Advisory lights                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.5.6.10.     Power supply                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.        Install Components
A5.5.7.1.      Strobe light                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.2.      Navigation/formation                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.3.      Anti-collision                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.4.      Retractable landing light                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.5.      Taxi light                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.6.      Map/chart holder                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.7.      Emergency exit light                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.8.      Controllers                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.9.      Transformers                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.10.     Leading edge light                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.11.     Advisory lights                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.12.     Flood lights                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.13.     Power supply                             *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.14.     Light cards                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.15.     Relays                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.5.7.16.     IFR/Slipway light                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.5.8.        Bench check
A5.5.8.1.      Strobe light                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.5.8.2.      Navigation/formation                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.5.8.3.      Anti-collision                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.5.8.4.      125Retractable landing light                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.5.8.5.      Taxi light                                                                                                          -        -        -          -



                                                                83
                                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.5.8.6.      Map/chart holder                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.5.8.7.      Emergency exit light                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.5.8.8.      Leading edge light                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.5.8.9.      Advisory lights                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.5.8.10.     Power supply                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.6.          LANDING GEAR/KNEELING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.6.1.        Operational Check System                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.6.2.        Troubleshoot System                                */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.6.3.        Inspect System Components                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.6.4.        Remove components
A5.6.4.1.      Control handle                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.6.4.2.      Sequence panel                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.6.4.3.      Sensors                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.6.4.4.      Switches                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.6.4.5.      Junction boxes                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.6.4.6.      Switch cards                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.6.4.7.      Relays                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.6.4.8.      Diodes                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.6.5.        Repair components
A5.6.5.1.      Control handle                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.6.5.2.      Control panels                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.6.6.        Install components
A5.6.6.1.      Control handle                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.6.6.2.      Sequence panel                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.6.6.3.      Sensors                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.6.6.4.      Switches                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.6.6.5.      Junction boxes                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.6.6.6.      Switch cards                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.6.6.7.      Relays                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.6.6.8.      Diodes                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.6.7.        Bench check
A5.6.7.1.      Control handle                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.6.7.2.      Control panels                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.7.          ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.7.2.        Operational Check System                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -


                                                                84
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 5
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.7.3.        Troubleshoot System                                */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.7.4.        Inspect System Components                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.7.5.        Remove components
A5.7.5.1.      Detector and deflation valve             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.7.5.2.      Anti-skid Control box                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.7.5.3.      Control panel                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.7.6.        Repair components
A5.7.6.1.      Anti-skid control box                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.7.6.2.      Control panel                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.7.7.        Install components
A5.7.7.1.      Detector and deflation valve             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.7.7.2.      Anti-skid Control box                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.7.7.3.      Control panel                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.7.8.        Bench check
A5.7.8.1.      Anti-skid control box                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.7.8.2.      Control panel                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.8.          NOSE GEAR STEERING/KNEELING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.8.1.        Operational Check System                 */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.8.2.        Troubleshoot System                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.8.3.        Inspect System Components                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.8.4.        Remove components
A5.8.4.1.      Indicator                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.8.4.2.      Sensors/switches                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.8.5.        Install components
A5.8.5.1.      Indicator                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.8.5.2.      Sensors/switches                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.9.          PRIMARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.9.2.        Operational check System
A5.9.2.1.      Primary flight control                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.9.2.2.      Trim and indication                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.9.3.        Troubleshoot System
A5.9.3.1.      Primary flight control                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.9.3.2.      Trim and indication                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.9.4.        Inspect System Components                                                                                            -        -        -          -




                                                                85
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 5
                                                       C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.10.         SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.10.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.10.2.       Operational check System
A5.10.2.1.     Secondary flight control                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.10.2.2.     Trim and indication                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.10.3.       Troubleshoot System
A5.10.3.1.     Secondary flight control                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.10.3.2.     Trim and indication                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.10.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.10.5.       Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-9JG-3-1
A5.10.5.1.     Flap/slate transmitters                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.10.5.2.     Asymmetry/Proximity control box                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.10.5.3.     Diodes                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.10.5.4.     Relays                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.10.5.5.     Proximity sensors                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.10.6.       Install components
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-9JG-3-1
A5.10.6.1.     Flap/slate transmitters                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.10.6.2.     Asymmetry/Proximity control box                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.10.6.3.     Diodes                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.10.6.4.     Relays                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.10.6.5.     Proximity sensors                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.10.7.       Bench Ck/Repair Asymmetry/Proximity Control Box                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.10.8.       Null flaps and slat brake transmitter             */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.11.         OVERHEAT/FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.11.2.       Operational Check System                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.11.3.       Troubleshoot System                                         */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.11.4.       Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.11.5.       Remove components
A5.11.5.1.     Smoke detector                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.11.5.2.     Control box                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.11.5.3.     Flame detector                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.11.5.4.     Sensors/sensing elements                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.11.6.       Repair components



                                                                         86
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 5
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.11.6.1.     Smoke detector                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.11.6.2.     Control box                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.11.7.       Install components
A5.11.7.1.     Smoke detector                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.11.7.2.     Control box                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.11.7.3.     Flame detector                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.11.7.4.     Sensors/sensing elements                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.11.8.       Bench check
A5.11.8.1.     Smoke detector                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.11.8.2.     Control box                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.12.         FIRE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.12.2.       Operational check System
A5.12.2.1.     Engine fire ext. system                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.12.2.2.     APU fire ext. system                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.12.3.       Troubleshoot system                                */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.12.4.       Inspect system Components                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.12.5.       Remove components
A5.12.5.1.     Fire bottles                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.12.5.2.     Plumbing                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.12.5.3.     Squib                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.12.5.4.     Panels                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.12.6.       Install components
A5.12.6.1.     Fire bottles                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.12.6.2.     Plumbing                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.12.6.3.     Squib                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.12.6.4.     Panels                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.12.7.       Perform ignition ck of squibs                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.12.8.       Bench Ck/Repair Panels                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.13.         FIRE SUPPRESSION/FUEL INERTING AND
               PRESSURIZATION
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.13.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.13.2.       Operational check system                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.13.3.       Troubleshoot system                                */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.13.4.       Inspect System Components                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.13.5.       Remove components



                                                                87
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 5
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.13.5.1.     CPU                                      *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.13.5.2.     CTS loops                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.13.5.3.     Dewar assembly                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.5.4.     Plumbing                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.13.5.5.     Main FSS panel                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.5.6.     Cargo FSS panel                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.13.5.7.     Nose FSS panel                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.5.8.     FSS LN2 service panel                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.13.5.9.     FSS LN2 valves and regulators                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.13.5.10.    Signal Conditioner                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.13.6.       Repair components
A5.13.6.1.     CPU                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.13.6.2.     Dewar assembly                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.6.3.     Main FSS panel                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.6.4.     Cargo FSS panel                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.13.6.5.     Nose FSS panel                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.6.6.     FSS LN2 service panel                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.13.6.7.     FSS LN2 valves and regulators                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.13.6.8.     Signal Conditioner                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.13.7.       Install components
A5.13.7.1.     CPU                                      *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.13.7.2.     CTS loops                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.13.7.3.     Dewar assembly                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.7.4.     Plumbing                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.13.7.5.     Main FSS panel                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.7.6.     Cargo FSS panel                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.13.7.7.     Nose FSS panel                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.7.8.     FSS LN2 service panel                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.13.7.9.     FSS LN2 valves and regulators            */R                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.13.7.10.    Signal Conditioner                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.13.8.       Bench check
A5.13.8.1.     CPU                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.13.8.2.     Dewar assembly                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.8.3.     Main FSS panel                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.8.4.     Cargo FSS panel                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.13.8.5.     Nose FSS panel                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.13.8.6.     FSS LN2 service panel                                                                                               -        -        -          -



                                                                88
                                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.13.8.7.     FSS LN2 valves and regulators                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.13.8.8.     Signal Conditioner                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.13.9.       Activate/deactivate FSS                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.13.10.      Purge Dewar                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.14.         MASTER CAUTION/WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.14.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.14.2.       Operational Check System                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.14.3.       Troubleshoot system                                */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.14.4.       Inspect system Components                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.14.5.       Remove components
A5.14.5.1.     Annunciator assembly                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.14.5.2.     Control box                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.14.5.3.     Light cards                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.14.6.       Repair components
A5.14.6.1.     Annunciator assembly                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.14.6.2.     Control box                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.14.7.       Install components
A5.14.7.1.     Annunciator assembly                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.14.7.2.     Control box                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.14.7.3.     Light cards                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.14.8.       Bench check
A5.14.8.1.     Annunciator assembly                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.14.8.2.     Control box                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.15.         DOOR CONTROL & WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.15.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.15.2.       Operational Check System                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.15.3.       Troubleshoot system                                */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.15.4.       Inspect system Components                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.15.5.       Remove components
A5.15.5.1.     Sensors                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.15.5.2.     Switches                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.15.5.3.     Control panels                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.15.6.       Install components
A5.15.6.1.     Sensors                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.15.6.2.     Switches                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.15.6.3.     Control panels                                                                                                       -        -        -          -


                                                                89
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 5
                                                    C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.15.7.       Bench Ck/Repair control panels                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.16.         FUEL WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.16.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.16.2.       Operational Check System                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.16.3.       Troubleshoot System                                     */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.16.4.       Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.17.         INFLIGHT REFUELING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.17.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.17.2.       Operational Check System                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.17.3.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.17.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.18.         START AND IGNITION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.18.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.18.2.       Operational Check System                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.18.3.       Troubleshoot System                                     */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.18.4.       Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.19.         NESA ANTI-ICING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.19.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.19.2.       Operational Check System                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.19.3.       Troubleshoot system                                     */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.19.4.       Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.19.5.       Remove components
A5.19.5.1.     Windshield Heat control box                                                                                               -         -        -        -
A5.19.5.2.     Transformers                                                                                                              -         -        -        -
A5.19.6.       Install components
A5.19.6.1.     Windshield Heat control box                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.19.6.2.     Transformers                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.19.7.       Bench Ck/Repair windshield heat control box                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.20.         BLEED AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.20.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.20.2.       Operational check System                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.20.3.       Troubleshoot system                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.20.4.       Inspect system Components                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -



                                                                     90
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 5
                                                       C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.20.5.       Remove components
A5.20.5.1.     Valves                                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.20.5.2.     Sensors                                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.20.5.3.     Ducts                                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.20.5.4.     Switches                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.20.6.       Install components
A5.20.6.1.     Valves                                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.20.6.2.     Sensors                                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.20.6.3.     Ducts                                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.20.6.4.     Switches                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.20.7.       Perform leakage test using high pressure air source                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.20.8.       Perform leakage test using APU's                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.20.9.       Repair Compensator Ducts                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.21.         BLEED AIR OVERHEAT SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.21.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.21.2.       Operational check System                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.21.3.       Troubleshoot system                                             *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.21.4.       Inspect system Components                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.21.5.       Remove components
A5.21.5.1.     Sensing elements                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.21.5.2.     Locator relay                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.21.5.3.     Control box                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.21.6.       Install components
A5.21.6.1.     Sensing elements                                                                                                                  -         -        -        -
A5.21.6.2.     Locator relay                                                                                                                     -         -        -        -
A5.21.6.3.     Control box                                                                                                                       -         -        -        -
A5.21.7.       Bench Ck/Repair control box                                                                                                       -         -        -        -
A5.21.8.       Calibrate locator relay                               *                                                                           -         -        -        -
A5.22.         AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.22.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.22.2.       Operational Check System                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.22.3.       Troubleshoot system                                             */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.22.4.       Inspect system Components                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.       Remove components
A5.22.5.1.     Valves                                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.2.     Sensors                                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -


                                                                             91
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 5
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.22.5.3.     Switches                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.4.     Temp cont. boxes                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.5.     Ducts                                    *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.6.     Cooling Turbine                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.7.     Water separator                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.8.     Heat exchanger                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.9.     Fan and sensor                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.10.    Van axial Fan assembly                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.11.    Mixing chamber                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.22.5.12.    Air Exit Valve Assembly                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.22.6.       Repair components
A5.22.6.1.     Valves                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.22.6.2.     Temp cont. boxes                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.22.6.3.     Water separator                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.22.6.4.     Fan and sensor                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.22.6.5.     Van axial Fan assembly                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.22.6.6.     Air Exit Valve Assembly                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.       Install components
A5.22.7.1.     Valves                                   *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.2.     Sensors                                  *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.3.     Switches                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.4.     Temp cont. boxes                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.5.     Ducts                                    *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.6.     Cooling Turbine                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.7.     Water separator                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.8.     Heat exchanger                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.9.     Fan and sensor                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.10.    Van axial Fan assembly                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.11.    Mixing chamber                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.22.7.12.    Air Exit Valve Assembly                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.22.8.       Bench check
A5.22.8.1.     Valves                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.22.8.2.     Temp cont. boxes                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.22.8.3.     Heat exchanger                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.22.8.4.     Fan and sensor                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.22.8.5.     Van axial Fan assembly                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.22.8.6.     Air Exit Valve Assembly                                                                                             -        -        -          -



                                                                92
                                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                                    C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.22.9.       Perform leakage checks                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.23.         PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.23.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.23.2.       Operational Check System                      */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.23.3.       Troubleshoot system                                     */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.23.4.       Inspect system Components                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.23.5.       Remove components
A5.23.5.1.     Thrust recovery actuator                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.23.5.2.     Auto pressure Control box                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.23.5.3.     Outflow valve                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.23.5.4.     Indicators                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.23.5.5.     Switches                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.23.5.6.     Panels                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.23.5.7.     Safety relief valve                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.23.5.8.     Potentiometer                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.23.6.       Repair components
A5.23.6.1.     Panels                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.23.6.2.     Safety Valves                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.23.7.       Install components
A5.23.7.1.     Thrust recovery actuator                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.23.7.2.     Auto pressure Control box                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.23.7.3.     Outflow valve                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.23.7.4.     Indicators                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.23.7.5.     Switches                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.23.7.6.     Panels                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.23.7.7.     Safety relief valve                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.23.7.8.     Potentiometer                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.23.8.       Bench check
A5.23.8.1.     Panels                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.23.8.2.     Safety Valves                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.23.9.       Perform Built-In Test (BITE) of Automatic                                                                                 -        -        -          -
               Pressurization System
A5.23.10.      Rig Outflow valve actuator                    */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.24.         OXYGEN SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-5A-2-13 and TO 15X-1-1
A5.24.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.24.2.       Operational check System



                                                                     93
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 5
                                                    C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.24.2.1.     Crew                                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.2.2.     Troop and passenger                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.24.2.3.     Lox indicating                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.24.3.       Troubleshoot system                                       */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.24.4.       Inspect system Components                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.       Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-2 and applicable equipment TOs
A5.24.5.1.     Buildup/vent valve                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.2.     Drain/fill valve                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.3.     Press. Demand Regulators                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.4.     Cont. flow regulators                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.5.     Drop down masks                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.6.     Heat exchanger                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.7.     Recharge hose                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.8.     Converters                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.9.     Indicators                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.10.    Plumbing                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.11.    Walk around bottle                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.24.5.12.    Regulator Hose assembly                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.       Install components
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-2 and applicable equipment TOs
A5.24.6.1.     Buildup/vent valve                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.2.     Drain/fill valve                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.3.     Press. Demand Regulators                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.4.     Cont. flow regulators                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.5.     Drop down masks                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.6.     Heat exchanger                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.7.     Recharge hose                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.8.     Converters                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.9.     Indicators                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.10.    Plumbing                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.11.    Walk around bottle                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.24.6.12.    Regulator Hose assembly                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.7.       Perform leakage check                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.8.       Purge system                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.9.       Service/drain system                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.24.10.      Bench Ck/Repair Walk around Bottle                                                                                          -        -        -          -




                                                                       94
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 5
                                                    C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                    Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.24.11.      Connect/Disconnect Cryogenic vent plugs/tubes, and                                                                               -        -        -          -
               equipment to vent ports
A5.25.         WINDSHIELD WIPER SYSTEM
A5.25.1        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.25.2.       Operational Check System                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.25.3.       Troubleshoot system                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.25.4.       Inspect system Components                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.25.5.       Repair windshield wiper motor                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.25.6.       Bench Check windshield motor                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.26.         GALLEY/BUFFET
A5.26.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.26.2.       Operational Check System                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.26.3.       Troubleshoot system                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.26.4.       Inspect system Components                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.26.5.       Repair components
A5.26.5.1.     Oven                                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.26.5.2.     Refrigerator                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.26.5.3.     Coffee brewer                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.26.6.       Bench ck components
A5.26.6.1.     Oven                                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.26.6.2.     Refrigerator                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.26.6.3.     Coffee brewer                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.27.         HYDRAULIC CONTROL/INDICATION
               WARNING CIRCUITS
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.27.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.27.2.       Operational Check System                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.27.3.       Troubleshoot system                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.27.4.       Inspect system Components                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.28.         AIR TURBINE MOTOR
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.28.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.28.2.       Operational Check System                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.28.3.       Troubleshoot system                                            *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.28.4.       Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.28.5.       Remove components
A5.28.5.1.     ATM assembly                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.28.5.2.     Filters                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -



                                                                            95
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 5
                                                       C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                        Tasks                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                            5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.28.5.3.     Exhaust duct                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.28.6.       Install
A5.28.6.1.     ATM assembly                                             *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.28.6.2.     Filters                                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.28.6.3.     Exhaust duct                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.28.7.       Service ATM with oil                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.29.         ENGINE THRUST REVERSER INDICATING
               SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-5A-2-4
A5.29.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.29.2.       Operational check system                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.29.3.       Troubleshoot system                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.29.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.30.         AIRCREW EYE RESPIRATORY PROTECTION
               SYSTEM (AERP)
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.30.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.30.2.       Operational check system                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.30.3.       Troubleshoot system                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.30.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.31.         COMMON MAINTENANCE PRACTICES
               TR: Applicable aircraft T.O.s
A5.31.1.       Perform duties of Concurrent Servicing Supervisor                                                                                   -        -        -          -
               (CSS) for fuel service operations
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-1, 00-25-172
A5.31.2.       Perform duties of Concurrent Servicing Supervisor                                                                                   -        -        -          -
               (CSS) for liquid oxygen (LOX) servicing operations
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-1, 00-25-172
A5.31.3.       Operate FMS/GPS-800 control head for                                                                                                -        -        -          -
               communication (UHF/VHF)
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-8-2S-34
A5.31.4.       Operate Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) and Air                                                                                          -        -        -          -
               TurbineMotor (ATM)
               TR: TO 1C-5A-2-4, 1C-5A-2-4CL-1
A5.31.5.       Operate C-5B MADAR II System                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
               TR: 1C-5A-102, 1C-5A-102-1
A5.31.6.       Bench ck/repair linear and rotary actuators                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.31.7.       Inspect/troubleshoot RAT                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.31.8.       Inspect/Repair explosion proof lights                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.32.         C-5M MODEL EXTERNAL ELECTRICAL POWER
               TR: APPLICABLE TOS
A5.32.1.       Connect apply and disconnect external electrical power   *                                                                          -        -        -          -


                                                                                96
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 5
                                                     C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                       Tasks                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                           5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.32.2.       Apply/remove control and display electrical power and   *                                                                          -        -        -          -
               core
A5.32.3.       Processing Electrical Power                             *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.33.         C-5M MODEL AC POWER SYSTEM
A5.33.1.       Remove/Install
A5.33.1.1.     Engine IDG Sensors and Switches                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.2.     IDG coolers (fuel/oil, air/oil)                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.3.     Generator Control Unit's (GCU's)                        *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.4.     Power Transfer Relay                                    *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.5.     External Power Relay                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.6.     Generator Relay                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.7.     Auxiliary Power Relay                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.8.     Bus Tie Relay                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.9.     AC Power System Load meter Current                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.10.    Transformer                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.11.    AC Cross Tie Relay (ACXTR)                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.12.    Bus Power Control Unit (BPCU)                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.13.    APU Generator Select Contactor                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.14.    Monitor Bus Contactor                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.15.    Power Bus Assembly                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.16.    AC System Control Panel                                 *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.33.1.17.    Control Panel Gauges, Switches and light modules                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.34.         C-5M MODEL DC POWER SYSTEM
A5.34.1.       Remove/Install
A5.34.1.1.     Aircraft/ APS 3400 APU Battery                          *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.34.1.2.     Aircraft/ APU Battery Electronics Control Module (BECM) *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.34.1.3.     APU Start Contactor                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.34.1.4.     APU Battery Isolation Contactor                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.34.1.5.     APU BECM Power Output Relay                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.34.1.6.     APU Bus Power Select Relay                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.34.1.7.     Regulated Transformer Rectifier Units (RTRU)            *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.34.1.8.     No. 1, No. 2 and Emergency                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.34.1.9.     Power Diode Assembly                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.34.1.10.    DC System Control Panel                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.34.1.11.    Control Panel Gauges, Switches and light modules                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.       Embedded Diagnostic System
A5.34.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals
A5.34.2.1.1.   Personal Computer Interface Unit (PCIU)                                                                                            -        -        -          -


                                                                               97
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                                      C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5        7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.34.2.1.2.   Auxiliary Maintenance Computer (AMC)                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.1.3.   Remote Interface Unit (RIU-200)                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.2.     Perform Operational Check
A5.34.2.2.1.   Personal Computer Interface Unit (PCIU)                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.2.2.   Auxiliary Maintenance Computer (AMC)                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.2.3.   Remote Interface Unit (RIU-200)                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.3.     Troubleshoot System
A5.34.2.3.1.   Personal Computer Interface Unit (PCIU)                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.3.2.   Auxiliary Maintenance Computer (AMC)                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.3.3.   Remote Interface Unit (RIU-200)                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.4.     Remove/ Install
A5.34.2.4.1.   Personal Computer Interface Unit (PCIU)                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.4.2.   Auxiliary Maintenance Computer (AMC)                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.4.3.   Auxiliary Maintenance Computer Battery                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.34.2.4.4.   Remote Interface Unit (RIU-200)                       *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.34.3.       Full Authority Digital Electronic Control (FADEC)
A5.34.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.34.3.2.     Perform Operational Check                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A5.34.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.34.3.4.     Remove/Install FADEC                                  *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.35.         C-5M MODEL ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS
A5.35.1.       Remove /Install
A5.35.1.1.     ATM Logic Speed Control Unit (LSCU)                   *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.35.1.2.     Pre-cooler (pylon)                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A5.35.1.3.     Valves                                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.35.1.4.     Sensors                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.35.1.5.     Ducts                                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.35.1.6.     Switches                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A5.35.1.7.     Perform Leakage test using high pressure air source                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.35.1.8.     Perform Leakage test using APU's                      *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.35.1.9.     Air Management System Controller (AMSC)               *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.35.1.10.    Valve, Low limit                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.35.1.11.    Air Cycle Machine (ACM)                               *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.36.         C-5M MODEL BLEED AIR OVERHEAT WARNING
               SYSTEM
A5.36.1.       Remove/Install
A5.36.1.1      Bleed Air Overheat Warning (BAOWS) control box        *                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.37.         C-5M MODEL ANTI-ICE SYSTEM


                                                                             98
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 5
                                                        C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A5.37.1.       Remove/Install
A5.37.1.1.     Anti-Ice valve                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.38.         C-5M MODEL ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
A5.38.1.       Remove/Install
A5.38.1.1.     Skid Detector                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.38.1.2.     Current Monitoring Transducer                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A5.39.         C-5M MODEL SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROLS
               (SLAT SYSTEM)
A5.39.1.       Remove/Install
A5.39.1.1.     Slat Proximity Control Unit (SPCU)                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A5.40.         C-5M MODEL SMOKE DETECTION SYSTEM
A5.40.1.       Remove/Install
A5.40.1.1.     Smoke detector Control Panel                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.40.1.2.     Smoke detection Relay and Diode Panel Assembly                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.41.         C-5M MODEL FIRE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM
A5.41.1.       Remove/Install
A5.41.1.1.     Fire Detection Control Unit (engine and APU) (FDCU)   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.41.1.2.     Fire detector assemblies and responder                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.41.1.3.     Control panels                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A5.42.         C-5M MODEL PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
A5.42.1.       Remove/Install
A5.42.1.1.     Cabin Pressure Controller (CPC)                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.43.         C-5M MODEL AVIONICS EQUIPMENT COOLING
A5.43.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A5.43.2.       Perform Operational Check                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A5.43.3.       Troubleshoot System                                             *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.43.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A5.43.5.       Remove/Install
A5.43.5.1.     Fans                                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A5.43.5.2.     Valves                                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A5.43.5.3.     Sensors                                                                                                                           -        -        -          -




                                                                             99
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 5
      C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                 100
                                     Attachment 5
                                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                             Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                     Provided
                                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 6
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 6 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain C-17 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when Capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ AMC/A4MMT,
402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; or call DSN 779-4787. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC
Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A6.1.           AC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: 1C-17A-2-24GS-00-1,
                APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TO’S
A6.1.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.1.2.         Operational check
                TR: 1C-17A-2-24JG-20-1 series,
                1C-17A-2-24JG-20-2 series
A6.1.2.1.       Generating and control system series                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.1.2.2.       Interrogation of APU/EPCU/ Bus Power Control Unit            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.1.2.3.       APU generation and control system                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.1.2.4.       Tie controls system                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.1.3.         Troubleshoot AC power system                                           */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.1.4.         Inspect system components                                              */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.1.5.         Remove/Install components
                TR: 1C-17A-2-24JG-20-1 series,
                1C-17A-2-24JG-20-2 series, 1C-17A-2-24JG-30-1 series
A6.1.5.1.       Current transformer                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.1.5.2.       Remote power controller                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.1.5.3.       Remote control circuit breaker                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.1.5.4.       Electrical light transmitting indicating panel                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.1.5.5.       Electrical system control panel                              */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.1.5.6.       Generator control unit                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.1.5.7.       APU/EPCU Bus Power Control Unit-BPCU                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.1.5.8.       Frequency converter                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.2.           DC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TO’S,
                1C-17A-2-24GS-00-1
A6.2.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.2.2.         Operational check
                TR: 1C-17A-2-24FI-00-1, 1C-17A-2-24JG-30-1 series,
                1C-17A-2-24JG-50-1 series, 1C-17A-2-24JG-60-1 series,
                1C-17A-2-24JG-70-1 series
A6.2.2.1.       Power and control system (DC)                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.2.2.2.       Batteries system                                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.2.2.3.       Instrument power system                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -


                                                                                     101
                                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 6
                                                       C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                              Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.2.2.4.      Electrical outlet system                                                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.2.2.5.      Emergency power system                                 *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.2.2.6.      Electrical protection system                                                                                                       -        -        -           -
A6.2.3.        Troubleshoot DC power system                                     *                                                                 -        -        -           -
A6.2.4.        Inspect system components                                        *                                                                 -        -        -           -
A6.2.5.        Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-24JG-30-1 series, 1C-17A-2-24JG-50-1,
               1C-17A-2-24JG-60-1 series, 1C-17A-2-24JG-70-1 series
A6.2.5.1.      Transformer rectifier                                                                                                              -        -        -           -
A6.2.5.2.      Main battery                                           *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.2.5.3.      Battery charger                                        *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.2.5.4.      Electrical outlet panel assembly                                                                                                   -        -        -           -
A6.2.5.5.      Electrical outlet power receptacle                                                                                                 -        -        -           -
A6.2.5.6.      Static inverter                                                                                                                    -        -        -           -
A6.2.5.7.      Electrical grounding receptacle connectors                                                                                         -        -        -           -
A6.2.6.        Repair components                                                                                                                  -        -        -           -
A6.2.7.        Connect/disconnect main battery                        *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.3.          EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-24GS-00-1,
               APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TO’S
A6.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.3.2.        Operational check                                      *                                                                           -         -           -           -

A6.3.3.        Troubleshoot system                                              */R                                                               -         -           -           -

A6.3.4.        Inspect system components                                        */R                                                               -         -        -          -
A6.3.5.        Remove/Install components
A6.3.5.1.      APU start and control panel                                                                                                        -        -        -           -
A6.3.5.2.      Other system components                                                                                                            -        -        -           -
A6.3.5.3.      Repair components                                                                                                                  -        -        -           -
A6.4.          LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-33GS-00-1,
               APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TO’S
A6.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.4.2.        Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-33FI-00-1, 1C-17A-2-33JG-10-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-33JG-10-1 series, 1C-17A-2-33JG-40-1 series
A6.4.2.1.      Interior                                               *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.4.2.2.      Exterior                                               *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.4.2.3.      Emergency                                              *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.4.3.        Troubleshoot Lighting system using FI manual                     *                                                                 -        -        -           -
A6.4.4.        Inspect system components                                        *                                                                 -        -        -           -

                                                                              102
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                                         C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                        Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.4.5.        Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-33JG-10-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-33JG-20-1 series, 1C-17A-2-33JG-20-3 series,
               1C-17A-2-33JG-30-3 series, 1C-17A-2-33JG-30-4 series,
               1C-17A-2-33JG-30-5 series, 1C-17A-2-33JG-40-2 series,
               1C-17A-2-33JG-40-4 series, 1C-17A-2-33JG-50-2 series,
               1C-17A-2-33JG-60-1 series
A6.4.5.1.      Instrument and panel transmitting and indicatingpanels                                                                               -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.2.      Annunciator dimming unit                                 *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.3.      Pilot ,copilot, and pedestal light transmitting panels                                                                               -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.4.      Stairway light transmitting indicating panel                                                                                         -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.5.      Personnel warning light transmitting indicating panel                                                                                -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.6.      Aeromedical light transmitting indicating panel                                                                                      -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.7.      External power panel light assembly                                                                                                  -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.8.      Loadmaster instrument and control panel system                                                                                       -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.9.      Loadmaster instrument and control panel annunciator      *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.10.     Anti-collision light power supply                        *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.11.     Recognition light power supply                                                                                                       -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.12.     UARRSI perimeter illuminating panel                                                                                                  -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.13.     Emergency battery                                        *                                                                           -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.14.     UARRSI lamp                                                                                                                          -        -        -           -
A6.4.5.15.     Other system components                                                                                                              -        -        -           -
A6.4.6.        Repair components                                                                                                                    -        -        -           -
A6.4.7.        Bench check                                                                                                                          -         -           -       -
A6.5.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-32GS-00-1,
               APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TO’S
A6.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -        -        -           -
A6.5.2.        Operational check
               1C-17A-2-32JG-00-1 series, 1C-17A-2-32JG-60-1 series
A6.5.2.1.      MLG normal sys                                                                                                                       -        -        -           -
A6.5.2.2.      NLG normal sys                                                                                                                       -        -        -           -
A6.5.2.3.      Gear handle electrical interlock system                                                                                              -        -        -           -
A6.5.3.        Troubleshoot Landing gear system using FI manual                   *                                                                 -        -        -           -
A6.5.4.        Inspect system components                                          *                                                                 -        -        -           -
A6.5.5.        Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-32JG-10-7 series,
               1C-17A-2-32JG-30-1 series, 1C-17A-2-32JG-60-1 series
A6.5.5.1.      Weight-on-wheels (WOW) proximity sensor                                                                                              -        -        -           -
A6.5.5.2.      LG control/indication panel                                        *                                                                 -        -        -           -
A6.5.5.3.      Main landing gear down-lock proximity sensor                                                                                         -        -        -           -

A6.5.5.4.      Main landing gear up-lock proximity sensor                                                                                           -        -        -           -

                                                                                103
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 6
                                                      C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                              Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.5.5.5.      Nose landing gear down proximity sensor                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.5.5.6.      Nose landing lock proximity sensor                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.5.6.        Repair components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.5.7.        Bench check                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.6.          ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-32 SERIES, 1C-17A-2-32GS-00-1
A6.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.6.2.        Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-32FI-00-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-32JG-40-1 series, 1C-17A-2-32JG-40-4 series
A6.6.2.1.      Anti-skid sys                                          */R                                                                        -         -         -         -
A6.6.2.2.      Brake pressure indicator                                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A6.6.3.        Troubleshoot anti-skid system using FI manual                    *                                                                -         -         -         -
A6.6.4.        Inspect system components                                        *                                                                -         -         -         -
A6.6.5.        Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-32JG-40-4 series,
               1C-17A-2-32JG-40-5 series, 1C-17A-2-32JG-40-6 series
A6.6.5.1.      Wheel speed transducer adapter assembly                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.6.5.2.      Parking brake proximity sensor                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.6.5.3.      Anti-skid/brake temp monitor control unit              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.6.5.4.      Wheel speed transducer                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.6.5.5.      Brake temp sensor                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.6.5.6.      Brake temp data acquisition unit                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.6.5.7.      Brake sys pressure gage                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.6.5.8.      Brake pressure indicator                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.6.6.        Repair components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.6.7.        Bench check                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.7.          PRIMARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-27 SERIES
A6.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.7.2.        Operational check                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.7.3.        Troubleshoot system                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A6.7.4.        Inspect system components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.7.5.        Remove components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.7.6.        Repair components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.7.7.        Install components                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.7.8.        Bench check                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.8.          SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-27 SERIES
A6.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -

                                                                              104
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 6
                                                         C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                           2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                           Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                   Provided
                                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                   A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                   3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                               5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.8.2.        Operational check                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.8.3.        Troubleshoot System                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.8.4.        Inspect system components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.8.5.        Remove components                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.8.6.        Repair components                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.8.7.        Install components                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.8.8.        Bench check                                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.9.          FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-26 SERIES, 1C-17A-2-26GS-00-1
A6.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.        Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-26FI-00-1, 1C-17A-2-26JG-10-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-26JG-10-2 series, 1C-17A-2-26JG-10-3 series,
               1C-17A-2-26JG-20-1 series, 1C-17A-2-26JG-20-2 series,
A6.9.2.1.      Engine fire system                                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.3.      Firing capability test of APU fire control panel                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.4.      Continuity test of APU fire control panel                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.5.      Agent low press indicating test of APU fire control panel                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.6.      Horn silencing test of APU fire control panel                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.7.      Under-floor APU fire warning horn                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.8.      Smoke detection sys                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.9.      Engine firing capability test                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.10.     Engine fire continuity test                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.11.     Engine fire agent low pressure indicating test                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.12.     Firing capability test for APU panels                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.13.     Continuity test for APU panels                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.14.     Agent low pressure indicating Test for APU Panel                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.9.2.15.     APU fire control panel firing capability test                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.3.        Troubleshoot Fire protection sys. using FI manual                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.9.4.        Inspect system components                                             *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.        Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-26JG-10-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-26JG-10-2 series, 1C-17A-2-26JG-10-3 series,
               1C-17A-2-26JG-20-1 series, 1C-17A-2-26JG-20-2 series
A6.9.5.1.      Engine APU fire detector controller                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.2.      Accessory compartment fire detection assembly               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.3.      Eng accessory compartment fire detector sensor                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.4.      Core compartment fire detection assembly                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.5.      Eng core compartment fire detector sensor                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.6.      Fire control switch handle                                                                                                              -        -        -          -

                                                                                   105
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 6
                                                         C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                         Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                 Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.9.5.7.      Fire handle incandescent lamp                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.8.      APU fire control panel                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.9.      Under-floor APU electric fire warning horn                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.10.     APU fire detector controller                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.11.     APU fire detection assembly                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.12.     Fire detector sensor on APU                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.13.     Cargo floor smoke detector indicator panel                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.14.     Typical smoke detector                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.15.     Cargo compartment curb smoke detectors (opaque particule) *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.16.     Engine fire extinguisher cartridge                        */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.17.     Engine fire extinguisher container                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.18.     Engine fire extinguisher discharge head                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.19.     Engine fire fuel shutoff gate valve                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.20.     Engine fire fuel shutoff gate valve actuator                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.21.     Engine hydraulic shutoff ball valve                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.22.     APU fire extinguisher cartridge                           */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.9.5.23.     APU fire extinguisher container                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.9.6.        Repair components                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.10.         ICE AND RAIN PROTECTION SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-30GS-00-1, 1C-17A-2-30 SERIES
A6.10.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A6.10.2.       Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-30FI-00-1, 1C-17A-2-30JG-00-1 series
A6.10.2.1.     Airfoil and air intakes                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.10.2.2.     Windows and windshield                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.10.2.3.     Engine cowl ice protection                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.10.2.4.     Anti ice duct integrity                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.10.3.       Troubleshoot ice & rain protection sys. using FI manual             *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.10.4.       Inspect system components                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.10.5.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-30JG-10-1, 1C-17A-2-30JG-10-2,
               1C-17A-2-30JG-10-3, 1C-17A-2-30JG-10-4,
               1C-17A-2-30JG-20-1, 1C-17A-2-30JG-40-1 series
A6.10.5.1.     Anti-ice defog control panel assembly                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.10.5.2.     Wing ice protection shutoff valve                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.10.5.3.     Wing telescopic duct slat assy                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.10.5.4.     Wing low temperature sensor                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.10.5.5.     Leading edge slat anti-icing duct assembliesnd                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.10.5.6.     Cowl low temperature sensor                                                                                                           -        -        -          -


                                                                                 106
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 6
                                                        C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                              Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.10.5.7.     Cowl ice protection venturi duct assembly                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.10.5.8.     Windshield anti-icing control box                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.10.5.9.     Window defog control box                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.10.5.10.    Other system components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.10.6.       Bench check                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.11.         ONBOARD INERT GAS GENERATION SYSTEM
               (OBIGGS)
               TR: 1C-17A-2-47GS-00-1, 1C-17A-2-47 SERIES
A6.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.11.2.       Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-47JG-00-1
A6.11.2.1.     Onboard inert gas generation system                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A6.11.2.2.     Interrogation onboard inert gas generation system      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.11.3.       Troubleshoot Inert (OBIGGS) sys using FI manual                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.11.4.       Inspect system components                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-47JG-10-1, 1C-17A-2-47JG-10-2,
               1C-17A-2-47JG-10-3, 1C-17A-2-47JG-20-1,
               1C-17A-2-47JG-40-1
A6.11.5.1.     Check valve                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.2.     Ducts                                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.3.     Precooler                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.4.     Air separation module                                  */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.5.     Air separation module air filter                       */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.6.     Reciprocating compressor unit                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.7.     Intake air cleaner filter element                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.8.     Air compressor oil filter element                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.9.     Pneumatic pressure regulator                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.10.    Pneumatic butterfly shutoff valve                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.11.    Fluid purity controller                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.12.    Heat exchanger                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.13.    Heat exchanger bypass valve                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.14.    Temperature sensitive element                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.15.    Remote mount pilot valve assy solenoid                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.16.    Pressure transmitter                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.17.    High pressure regulating and shutoff valve             */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.18.    Low pressure regulating & overpressure shutoff valve                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.19.    Double relief valve                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.20.    Low pressure relief valve                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.21.    Rupture disk                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -

                                                                              107
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 6
                                                        C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                          Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                  Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                  A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                              5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.11.5.22.    Overheat detector sensing element                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.23.    OBIGGS II Shut-off vlave                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.24.    OBIGGS II Boost compressor                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.25.    OBIGGS II Oxygen sensor                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.26.    OBIGGS II Low flow valve                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.27.    OBIGGS II Fuel tank shut-off valve                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.28.    OBIGGS II Remote Interface Unit                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.11.5.29.    Other system components                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A6.11.6.       Repair components                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.12.         INDICATING & RECORDING SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-31GS-00-1, 1C-17A-2-31 SERIES
A6.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.12.2.       Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-31FI-00-1, 1C-17A-2-31JG-40-1,
               1C-17A-2-31JG-50-1 series
A6.12.2.1.     Interrogate sensor signal interface 1 and 2                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.12.2.2.     Aural warning sys                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.12.2.3.     Visual warning & caution sys (WACS)                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.12.3.       Troubleshoot Indicating & recording sys. using FI manual             */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.12.4.       Inspect system components                                            */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.12.5.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-31JG-40-1, 1C-17A-2-31JG-50-1 series
A6.12.5.1.     Warning & caution computer (WACC)                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.12.5.2.     Warning & caution annunciator panel (WAP)                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.12.5.3.     Sensor signal interface                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.12.6.       Repair WCC data bus line                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.13.         DOOR CONTROL AND WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-28GS-00-1, 1C-17A-2-52GS-00-1,
               1C-17A-2-52JG SERIES
A6.13.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.13.2.       Operational check
A6.13.2.1.     Door Actuating & Indicating System
               TR: 1C-17A-2-28JG-50-4 series, 1C-17A-2-52JG-30-1
A6.13.2.1.1.   Refuel Door actuating & indicating sys                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A6.13.2.1.2.   Open/close cargo ramp/door automatically                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.13.2.1.3.   Open/close cargo ramp/door manually                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.13.3.       Troubleshoot Door sys using FI manual                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -

A6.13.4.       Inspect system components                                            *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.13.5.       Repair components                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -



                                                                                  108
                                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 6
                                                       C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                         Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                 Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.13.6.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-52JG-30-1, 1C-17A-2-52JG-30-3,
               1C-17A-2-52-30-6, 1C-17A-2-52JG-70-1
A6.13.6.1.     Typical cargo door & ramp proximity sensor                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.13.6.2.     Cargo door position transmitter                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.13.6.3.     Ramp position transmitter                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.13.6.4.     Door/status panel                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.13.7.       Bench check                                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.14.         CARGO HANDLING/MISSION SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-41GS-00-1, 1C-17A-2-41 SERIES
A6.14.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A6.14.2.       Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-41JG-10-1, 1C-17A-2-41JG-10-2,
               1C-17A-2-41JG-10-4, 1C-17A-2-41JG-20-1,
               1C-17A-2-41JG-30-1, 1C-17A-2-41JG-50-1,
A6.14.2.1.     Ads locks control panel                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.14.2.2.     Variable restraint assembly                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.14.2.3.     Cargo compartment logistic pallet control panel                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.14.2.4.     Support/stab strut sys                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A6.14.2.5.     CDS sys                                                                                                                               -        -        -          -

A6.14.2.6.     Tow release mechanism                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -

A6.14.2.7.     Parachute deployment mechanism                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.14.2.8.     ADS control panel                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A6.14.2.9.     Forward loadmaster control panel                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.14.2.10.    ADS backup control panel                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A6.14.2.11.    Aft loadmaster control panel                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.14.2.12.    ADS controller                                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.14.2.13.    Operate support/stab strut for maintenance                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.14.3.       Troubleshoot Cargo handling/mission sys using FI manual             */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.14.4.       Inspect system components                                           */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.14.5.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-41JG-10-1, 1C-17A-2-41JG-10-4,
               1C-17A-2-41JG series, 1C-17A-2-41JG-20-2,
               1C-17A-2-41JG-30-2, 1C-17A-2-41JG-50-1,
               1C-17A-2-41JG-60-1
A6.14.5.1.     ADS locks control panel                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.14.5.2.     Cargo compartment logistic pallet control panel                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.14.5.3.     Typical system proximity sensor                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.14.5.4.     Stab strut door actuator switch                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.14.5.5.     ADS controller                                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.14.5.6.     Patient monitoring panel                                                                                                              -        -        -          -


                                                                                 109
                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 6
                                                        C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                          Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                  Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                  A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                              5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.14.5.7.     Tow severance assembly                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.14.6.       Repair components                                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A6.14.7.       Bench check                                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.15.         FUEL WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-28FI-00-1, 1C-17A-2-28 Series,
               1C-17A-2-28GS-00-1, 1C-17A-2-28JG-20-1 series,
A6.15.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.15.2.       Operational check of Refueling & defueling sys                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.15.3.       Troubleshoot Fuel Sys using FI manual                                */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.15.4.       Inspect system components                                            */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.15.5.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-28JG-20-1 series, 1C-17A-2-28JG-20-2 series
A6.15.5.1.     Inert control panel                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.15.5.2.     Ground refueling control panel                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.15.5.3.     Engine start fuel sys control panel                        */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.16.         START AND IGNITION SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-71FI-00-1, 1C-17A-2-74JG-20-1,
               1C-17A-2-80GS-00-1,
A6.16.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.16.2.       Operational check of engine ignition distribution system                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.16.3.       Troubleshoot powerplant start system using FI manual                 */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.16.4.       Inspect system components                                            */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.17.         BLEED AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-36GS-00-1, 1C-17A-2-36 SERIES
A6.17.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.17.2.       Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-36JG-00-1
A6.17.2.1.     Operational checkout of pneumatic system                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.17.2.2.     Interrogate manifold failure detection controller          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.17.3.       Troubleshoot
               TR: 1C-17A-2-36FI-00-1
A6.17.3.1.     Troubleshoot manifold failure detection system                       */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.17.3.2      Troubleshoot pneumatic system using ECS laptop/ FI                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
               manual
A6.17.4.       Inspect system components                                            *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-36JG , 1C-17A-2-36JG-10-1,
               1C-17A-2-36JG-10-2, 1C-17A-2-36JG-10-3
               1C-17A-2-36JG-20-1
A6.17.5.1.     Pressure sensor                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.2.     Temperature sensor                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -


                                                                                  110
                                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 6
                                                       C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                        Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.17.5.3.     Check valve                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.4.     Pylon pressure regulator valve                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.5.     High stage valve                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.6.     Pneumatic high stage manifold                                                                                                        -        -        -          -

A6.17.5.7.     Pneumatic ducting                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.8.     Typical pneumatic system pilot valve                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.9.     Pylon overpressure shutoff valve                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.10.    Fan air valve                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.11.    Precooler                                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.12.    Overheat detector sensing element of MFD system                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.13.    Manifold failure detection controller                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.17.5.14.    Wing differential pressure switch                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.18.         AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-21GS-00-11C-17A-2-21 SERIES
A6.18.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.18.2.       Operational check
               1C-17A-2-21JG-00-1 series, 1C-17A-2-21JG-20-1,
               1C-17A-2-21JG-20-4, 1C-17A-2-21JG-40-1 series
A6.18.2.1.     Air conditioning system                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.18.2.2.     Interrogation of ECSC                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.18.2.3.     Cargo compartment vaneaxial fan                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.18.2.4.     Cargo compartment exhaust vaneaxial fan                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A6.18.2.5.     Ram air vent turbine bypass vlv./ ram door actuator                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.18.2.6.     Cargo floor heater strip                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.18.2.7.     Ramp floor heating system                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.18.3.       Troubleshoot Air conditioning sys using ESC                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
               Laptop/ FI manual

A6.18.4.       Inspect system components                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-21JG-20-1, 1C-17A-2-21JG-20-2 series,
               1C-17A-2-21JG-20-3, 1C-17A-2-21JG-20-4,
               1C-17A-2-21JG-40-1 series, 1C-17A-2-21JG-50-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-21JG-50-2 series , 1C-17A-2-21JG-50-3 series,
               1C-17A-2-21JG-50-4 series, 1C-17A-2-21JG-60-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-21JG-90-1 series
A6.18.5.1.     Conditioned air check valve                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.2.     Mix Chamber Cold Air relief valve                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.3.     Flow distribution mix chamber                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.4.     Environmental control panel assembly                     */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.5.     Cargo compartment vaneaxial fan                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.6.     Filter element for cargo compartment vaneaxial fan                                                                                   -        -        -          -

                                                                                111
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 6
                                                         C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                              Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.18.5.7.     Conditioned air shutoff valve                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.8.     Individual air valve                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.9.     Avionics cooling fan                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.10.    Avionics cooling fan check valve                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.11.    Avionics cooling outflow valve                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.12.    Augmentation Valve                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.13.    Cooling avionics heat exchanger bypass valve                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.14.    Avionics backup outflow valve                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.15.    Ground inlet shutoff valve                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.16.    Temperature sensors                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.17.    Avionics cooling shutoff valve                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A6.18.5.18.    Cargo compartment exhaust vaneaxial fan                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.19.    Temperature control panel (Load Master)                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.20.    Ram air ventilation valve duct assembly                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.21.    Ram air vent valve actuator adjustment                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.22.    Ramp heater/blower                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.23.    Ramp floor thermostat                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.24.    Flow control valve                                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.25.    Ram air plenum                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.26.    Pack anti-ice valve                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.27.    Air conditioning heat exchanger                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.28.    Air cycle machine                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.29.    Fusible plug                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.30.    Water separator assembly                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.31.    Coalescer bag on water separator                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.32.    Ram air inlet scoop assembly                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.33.    Turbine Bypass Valve/Ram Air Door Actuator                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.34.    Ram air exhaust valve assembly                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.35.    Trim air regulator valve                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.36.    Cockpit air temperature sensing ejector assembly                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A6.18.5.37.    Environmental control system controller                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.19.         PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-21FI-00-1, 1C-17A-2-21GS-00-1,
               1C-17A-2-21 SERIES, 1C-17A-2-21JG-30-1 series
A6.19.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -

A6.19.2.       Operational check of the Pressurization system         */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.19.3.       Troubleshoot pressurization system using a FI manual             */R                                                               -        -        -          -


                                                                              112
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 6
                                                       C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                       Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                               Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                           5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.19.4.       Inspect system components                                         */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.19.5.       Remove/Install components
               1C-17A-2-21JG-30-1 series, 1C-17A-2-21JG-30-2 series
A6.19.5.1.     Automatic cabin pressure controller                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.19.5.2.     Cabin pressure outflow valve body                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A6.19.5.3.     Cabin pressure selector panel                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A6.19.5.4.     Cabin pressure transducer                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.19.5.5.     Alternating current actuator                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.19.5.6.     Direct current actuator                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.19.5.7.     Cabin pressure indication panel assembly                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.19.5.8.     Altitude pressure aneroid switch                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.19.5.9.     Pressure relief valve                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.19.6.       Bench check                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.20.         OXYGEN SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-35GS-00-1, 1C-17A-2-35 SERIES
A6.20.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.20.2.       Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-12JG-35-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-35JG-10-2 series, 1C-17A-2-35JG-20-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-35JG-20-3 series, 1C-17A-2-35JG-20-5 series,
               1C-17A-2-35JG-20-1, 1C-17A-2-35JG-20-3,
               1C-17A-2-35JG-20-4
A6.20.2.1.     Panel-mounted diluter demand oxygen regulator           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.2.2.     LOX converter                                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.2.3.     Emergency sys passenger oxygen regulator switch                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A6.20.2.4.     LOX quantity indicator                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.3.       Troubleshoot oxygen system using FI manual                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.20.4.       Inspect system components                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-35JG series, 1C-17A-2-28JG-10-3 series,
               1C-17A-2-35JG-10-1 series, 1C-17A-2-35JG-10-2 series,
               1C-17A-2-35JG-20-5 Series,
A6.20.5.1.     Liquid quantity indicator (totalizer)                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.2.     Typical liquid oxygen converter                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.3.     Typical 430 PSI relief valve                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.4.     Crew liquid oxygen drain valve                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.5.     Crew buildup and vent combination fill valve            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.6.     Crew oxygen heat exchanger                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.7.     Typical oxygen check valve                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.8.     Oxygen shutoff cross-feed valve                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.9.     Diluter demand oxygen regulator                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -


                                                                               113
                                                                                                                                                                Attachment 6
                                                          C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                   Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                           Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.20.5.10.    Crew liquid oxygen manual shutoff valve                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.11.    Oxygen automatic opening altitude compensating                                                                                  -        -        -          -
               regulator valve
A6.20.5.12.    Lavatory oxygen automatic opening altitude                                                                                      -        -        -          -
               compensating regulator valve

A6.20.5.13.    Auxiliary liquid oxygen manual shutoff valve                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.14.    Passenger liquid oxygen manual shutoff valve                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.15.    Passenger oxygen mask container assemblies                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.16.    Lavatory emergency oxygen mask container assembly                                                                              -         -        -          -
A6.20.5.17.    Passenger oxygen mask                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.18.    Passenger mask oxygen manifold                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.19.    Typical oxygen pressure switch                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.20.    Typical liquid oxygen quantity indicator            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.21.    50 PSI halo therapeutic regulator                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.22.    Oxygen Low Pressure Switch                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.23.    Oxygen Quick Don Mask                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.24.    430-psi Passenger Oxygen Relief Valve                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.5.25.    Oxygen Relief Valve                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.20.6.       Drain LOX converter                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.7.       Purge LOX converter                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.20.8.       Repack sidewall pass emergency O2 mask                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.20.9.       Service LOX                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.21.          CREW ESCAPE AND SAFETY
               TR: 1C-17A-2-95GS-00-1, 1C-17A-2-95 SERIES
A6.21.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A6.21.2.       Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-95JG-20-1, TR: 1C-17A-2-95JG-30-1
A6.21.2.1.     Flotation equipment deployment system                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.21.2.2.     Ramp escape blow-down                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.21.3.       Troubleshoot crew escape & safety sys using FI                */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.21.4.       Inspect                                                       */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.21.5.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-95JG-20-1, 1C-17A-2-95JG-20-2,
               1C-17A-2-95JG-30-1
A6.21.5.1.     Fed arm control panel                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.21.5.2.     Arm fire initiator                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A6.21.5.3.     Retractor assembly                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A6.21.5.4.     Shaped charge assembly                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.21.5.5.     Shielded mild detonating cord                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A6.21.5.6.     Shielded mild detonating cord union                                                                                             -        -        -          -


                                                                           114
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                                        C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                         Tasks                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                 Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.21.5.7.     Port manifold                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A6.21.5.8.     Aft loadmaster ramp blowdown panel                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.21.5.9.     Forward loadmaster ramp blowdown panel                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A6.21.5.10.    Ramp emergency egress power supply battery                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.22.         MISCELLANEOUS SYSTEMS
               TR: APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TO’S
A6.22.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A6.22.2.       Operational check
               TR: 1C-17A-2-38JG-10-1, 1C-17A-2-38JG-30-1
A6.22.2.1.     Electric water heater                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.22.2.2.     Waste disposal sys                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A6.22.2.3.     Galley module system                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.22.4.       Inspect system components                                           */R                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.22.3.       Troubleshoot
               TR: 1C-17A-2-25FI-00-1, 1C-17A-2-38FI-00-1
A6.22.3.1.     Water/waste sys using FI manual                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.22.3.2.     Potable water sys indication using FI manual                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.22.3.3.     Equipment & furnishings using FI manual                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.22.5.       Remove/Install components
               TR: 1C-17A-2-29JG-10-1 series, 1C-17A-2-40JG-20-1,
               1C-17A-2-25JG-30-1 series, 1C-17A-2-25JG-40-1
A6.22.5.1.     Hydraulic system panel assembly                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.22.5.2.     Maintenance monitor panel                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.22.5.3.     Galley module hot cup timer                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.22.5.4.     Lavatory shaver power supply                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A6.22.6.       Operate
               TR: 1C-17A-2-29JG-00-1 series, 1C-17A-2-34JG-60-1,
               1C-17A-2-40JG-20-1
A6.22.6.1.     Interrogate MCD                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A6.22.6.2.     Aux Hydraulic system                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A6.22.6.3.     Interrogate MMP/ERASE faults                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A6.23.         COMMON MAINTENANCE PRACTICES
               TR: APPLICABLE AIRCRAFT TO’S
A6.23.1.       Inspect/operate portable external electrical power unit                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.23.2.       Inspect/use ground maintenance stands                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A6.23.3.       Dropped Object Prevention Program (DOPP)                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A6.23.4.       Operate
               TR: 1C-17A-2-00JG series, 1C-17A-2-00JG-00-1 series,
               1C-17A-2-10JG-60-1 series
A6.23.4.1.     Fuselage/wing access entry                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.23.4.2.     Horizontal stab entry /exit                                                                                                           -        -        -          -

                                                                                 115
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 6
                                                       C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                            Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A6.23.4.3.     Under-floor maintenance tunnel entry /exit                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A6.23.4.4.     Power off under-floor maintenance tunnel entry /exit                                                                             -        -        -          -
A6.23.4.5.     Connect/disconnect ground a/c unit                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A6.23.4.6.     Connect/disconnect ext. pneumatic air                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A6.23.4.7.     Connect/disconnect external electrical power                                                                                     -        -        -          -




                                                                            116
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 6
                                              C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                             Tasks                                                                       Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 7
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 7 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain C-130 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ AMC/A4MMT,
402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; or call DSN 576-4787. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training
Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A7.1.           AC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.1.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.1.2.         Operational check                                            *                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.1.3.        Troubleshoot                                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A7.1.3.1.       AC Power System                                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.1.3.2.       Bearing Fail System                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A7.1.4.         Inspect System Components                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.1.5.         Remove/Install components
A7.1.5.1.       Generator control panel                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.1.5.2.       Voltage regulator                                            *                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.1.5.3.       Frequency-sensitive relay                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.1.5.4.       Inverter                                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.1.5.5.       Bus tie contactor                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.1.5.6.       Generator control unit                                       *                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.1.5.7.       Bus switching system components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.1.5.8.       Engine generator                                             *                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.1.5.9.       Other system components                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.1.6.         Repair components                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.1.7.         Component location                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.1.8.         Bench check components                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A7.2.          DC POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.2.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.2.2.         Operational check                                            *                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.2.3.         Troubleshoot                                                            *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.2.4.         Inspect System Components                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.2.5.         Remove/Install components
A7.2.5.1.       Transformer rectifier unit                                   *                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.2.5.2.       Reverse current relay                                        *                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.2.5.3.       Battery system components                                    *                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.2.5.4.       Other system components                                      *                                                                            -        -        -          -


                                                                                      117
                                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 7
                                              C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.3.          EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.3.2.        Apply external power                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.3.3.        Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.3.4.        Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.3.5.        Remove/Install components
A7.3.5.1.      External power receptacle                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A7.3.5.2.      External power contactor                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.3.5.3.      Other system components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.3.6.        Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.3.7.        Bench check components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.4.          APU/GTC POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs
A7.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.4.2.        Operational check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.4.3.        Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.4.4.        Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.4.5.        Remove/Install components                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A7.4.6.        Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.5.          AIR TURBINE MOTOR (ATM)
A7.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.5.2.        System Operational check                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.5.3.        Bus off warning operational check                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.5.4.        Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.5.5.        Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.5.6.        Remove/Install components
A7.5.6.1.      ATM assembly                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.5.6.2.      ATM generator                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.5.6.3.      Shutoff valve                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.5.6.4.      Modulation valve                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A7.5.6.5.      Cooling fan                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A7.5.6.6.      Solenoid                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.5.6.7.      Filter                                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.5.6.8.      Bus tie/generator line contactor                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A7.5.6.9.      Bus off warning relay                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.5.7.        Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.5.8.        Drain and service oil                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -


                                                                           118
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 7
                                               C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.6.          LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.6.2.        Operational check
A7.6.2.1.      External lighting
A7.6.2.1.1.    Navigation lights                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.6.2.1.2.    Leading Edge lights                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
 A7.6.2.1.3.   Taxi lights                                         *                                                                           -         -       -          -
A7.6.2.1.4.    Anticollision lights                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.6.2.1.5.    Landing lights                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.6.2.1.6.    Formation lights                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.6.2.1.7.    Other exterior lights                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.6.2.2.      Internal lighting
A7.6.2.2.1.    Flight-deck lighting                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.6.2.2.2.    Cargo compartment lighting                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.6.2.2.3.    Other internal lighting                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.6.3.        Troubleshoot Lighting Systems                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.6.4.        Inspect Lighting Systems                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.6.5.        Remove/Install components
A7.6.5.1.      Navigation light                                                                                                               -         -         -         -
A7.6.5.2.      Leading Edge light                                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A7.6.5.3.      Taxi light                                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A7.6.5.4.      Anticollision light                                 *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A7.6.5.5.      Anticollision light power supply                    *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A7.6.5.6.      Landing light                                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A7.6.5.7.      Formation light                                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A7.6.5.8.      Loading light                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.6.5.9.      Instrument panel eyebrow light                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.6.5.10.     Variable AC light transformer                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.6.5.11.     DC light rheostat                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.6.5.12.     NVG Light Assemblies                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.6.5.12.     NVIS Receptacle                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.6.5.13.     NVG Transfer Unit                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.6.5.14.     NVG Lighting Control Box                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.6.6.        Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.7.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component       TOs
A7.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -


                                                                           119
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 7
                                               C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.7.2.        Operational check                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.7.3.        Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.7.4.        Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.7.5.        Remove/Install components
A7.7.5.1.      Landing gear control panel                      */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.8.          ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component   Tos
A7.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A7.8.2.        Operational check                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.8.3.        Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.8.4.        Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.8.5.        Remove/Install components
A7.8.5.1.      Anti-skid control box                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.8.5.2.      Wheel transducer                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.8.6.        Other system components                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A7.9.          PRIMARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 Tos / 8 series component   Tos
A7.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A7.9.2.        Operational check
A7.9.2.1.      Aileron/Rudder Trim                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.9.2.2.      Elevator Trim                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.9.3.        Troubleshoot                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.9.4.        Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.9.5.        Remove/Install components
A7.9.5.1.      Elevator trim yoke switch                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.9.5.2.      Elevator trim selector switch                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.9.5.3.      Rudder/aileron trim switch                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.9.5.4.      Other system components                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A7.10.         SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 Tos / 8 series component   Tos
A7.10.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A7.10.2.       Operational check flaps                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.10.3.       Troubleshoot flaps                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.10.4.       Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.10.5.       Remove/Install components
A7.10.5.1.     Flap assemetry brake switches                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.10.5.2.     Flap motor limit switches                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.10.5.3.     Flap motor warning switches                                                                                                 -        -        -          -


                                                                       120
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 7
                                              C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.10.5.4.     Flap position warning switches                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.10.6.       Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.11.         OVERHEAT/FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 Tos / 8 series component TOs
A7.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.11.2.       Operational check
A7.11.2.1.     Engine overheat/fire warning                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.11.2.2.     GTC/APU/overheat/fire warning                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.11.2.3.     Nacelle overheat                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.11.2.4.     Turbine overheat                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.11.3.       Troubleshoot
A7.11.3.1.     Overheat/fire warning                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.11.3.2.     Turbine overheat                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.11.3.3.     Nacelle overheat                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.11.4.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.11.5.       Remove/Install components
A7.11.5.1.     Thermostat                                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.11.5.2.     Fire/Overheat loop                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.11.5.3.     Fire Warning Control Box                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.11.5.4.     Overheat detectors                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.11.5.5.     Turbine overheat wiring harness                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.11.6.       Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.11.7.       Bench check components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.12.         FIRE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 Tos / 8 series component TOs
A7.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.12.2.       Operational check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.12.3.       Troubleshoot Systems                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.12.4.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.12.5.       Remove/Install components
A7.12.5.1.     Squib                                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.12.5.2.     Agent bottle                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.12.5.3.     Directional control valves                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.12.5.4.     System plumbing                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.12.6.       Bench check components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.13.         MASTER CAUTION/WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.13.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -


                                                                           121
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 7
                                              C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.13.2.       Operational check of Panel Assembly                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.13.3.       Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.13.4.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.13.5.       Remove/Install components
A7.13.5.1.     Dimmer Unit                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A7.13.5.2.     Control Box                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A7.13.5.3.     Light Assembly                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.14.         CARGO DOOR CONTROL AND WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.14.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.14.2.       Operational check
A7.14.2.1.     Cargo Ramp/Door                                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.14.2.2.     ADS                                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.14.3.       Troubleshoot System                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.14.4.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.14.5.       Remove/Install components
A7.14.5.1.     Ramp switch                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.14.5.2.     Door switch                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.14.6.       Adjust switches
A7.14.6.1.     Ramp Switch                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.14.6.2.     Door Switch                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.15.         START AND IGNITION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.15.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.15.2.       Operational check                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.15.3.       Auxiliary generator                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A7.15.4.       Troubleshoot System                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.15.5.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.15.6.       Remove/Install components
A7.15.6.1.     Starter control switch                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.15.6.2.     Throttle ignition switch                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.15.6.3.     Low speed ground idle switch                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.16.         FUEL WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.16.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.16.2.       Operational check                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.16.3.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A7.16.4.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -


                                                                           122
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 7
                                               C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.16.5.       Remove/Install components                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A7.16.6.       Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.16.7.       Bench check components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.17.         NESA ANTI-ICING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.17.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.17.2.       Operational check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.17.3.       Attach wire to taps on transformer                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.17.4.       Troubleshoot System                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.17.5.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.17.6.       Remove/Install components
A7.17.6.1.     Power transformer                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.17.6.2.     NESA window leads and hardware                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.18.         BLEED AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.18.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.18.2.       Operational check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.18.3.       Troubleshoot System                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.18.4.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.18.5.       Remove/Install components
A7.18.5.1.     Engine pressure regulator/shutoff valve             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.18.5.2.     Wing anti-ice valve                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.18.5.3.     Bleed air ducts and clamps                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.18.5.4.     Thermostat                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.18.5.5.     Other system components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.18.6.       Perform leakage checks                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.18.7.       Perform bleed air decay check                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.19.         RADOME ANTI-ICING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.19.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.19.2.       Operational check                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.19.3.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A7.19.4.       Troubleshoot Monitoring System                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.19.5.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A7.19.6.       Remove/Install components
A7.19.6.1.     Anti-ice valve                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.19.6.2.     Thermal-switches                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A7.19.6.3.     Anti-ice solenoid                                                                                                               -        -        -          -


                                                                           123
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 7
                                           C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                    Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.19.6.4.     Anti-ice regulator                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.19.6.5.     Glycol tank components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.19.6.6.     Monitor Indicators                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.19.6.7.     Pressure Transducer                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A7.19.6.8.     Resistance Temperature Detector                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.19.7        Calibrate System                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.20.         WING AND EMPENNAGE ANTI-ICING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series components TOs
A7.20.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.20.2.       Operational check                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.20.3.       Troubleshoot System                                            *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.20.4.       Inspect System Component                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.20.5.       Remove/Install components                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.21.         ICE DETECTION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series components TOs
A7.21.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.21.2.       Operational check                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.21.3.       Troubleshoot System                                            *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.21.4.       Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.21.5.       Remove/Install components
A7.21.5.1.     Ice detector                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.21.5.2.     Interpreter                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.21.5.3.     Propeller de-ice timer                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.21.5.4.     Other System Components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.22.         UNDERFLOOR HEAT SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series components TOs
A7.22.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.22.2.       Operational check                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.22.3.       Troubleshoot System                                            *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.22.4.       Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.22.5.       Remove/Install components
A7.22.5.1.     Shutoff valve                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A7.22.5.2.     Diverter valve                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.22.5.3.     Thermostat                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A7.22.5.4.     Recirculating fan                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A7.22.5.5.     Other System Components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.23.         AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs/ 8 series component TOs



                                                                            124
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 7
                                                C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.23.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.23.2.       Operational check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.23.3.       Troubleshoot System                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.23.4.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.       Remove/Install components
A7.23.5.1.     Flow control valve                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.2.     Diverter valve pressure controller                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.3.     Water separator sock                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.4.     Temperature control valve                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.5.     Water separator                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.6.     Water separator anti-ice valve                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.7.     Auxiliary vent valve                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.8.     Cooling turbine                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.9.     Heat exchanger                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.10.    Ram air duct                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.11.    Refrigeration unit                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.12.    Temperature control boxes                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A7.23.5.13.    Other system components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.23.6.       Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.23.7.       Perform leakage checks                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.23.8.       Bench check components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.23.9.       Service cooling turbine                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.23.10.      Adjust flight deck flow valve cabin assembly                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A7.24.         PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.24.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.24.2.       Operational check                                   */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.24.3.       Troubleshoot
A7.24.3.1.     Pressurization System                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.24.3.2.     Overboard Vent System                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.24.4.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.24.5.       Remove/Install components
A7.24.5.1.     Pressure controller                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.24.5.2.     Outflow valve                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.24.5.3.     Pneumatic relay                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.24.5.4.     Safety valve                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.24.5.5.     Overboard Vent outflow valve                                                                                                    -        -        -          -



                                                                           125
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 7
                                               C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.24.5.6.     Overboard vent vacuum regulator                                                                                                 -           -     -             -
A7.24.5.7.     Overboard Vent pneumatic relay                                                                                                  -           -     -             -
A7.24.5.8.     Filters                                                                                                                         -           -     -             -
A7.24.6.       Repair components                                                                                                               -           -     -             -
A7.24.7.       Bench check components                                                                                                          -           -     -             -
A7.24.8.       Perform pressure decay check                        *                                                                           -           -     -             -
A7.25.         LIQUID OXYGEN SYSTEM
               TR: AFOSH standards / TOs 15X1-1, 42B5-1-2,
               42E1-1-1 / Applicable C-130 TOs
A7.25.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -           -     -             -
A7.25.2.       Operational check                                   *                                                                           -           -     -             -
A7.25.3.       Troubleshoot System                                           *                                                                 -           -     -             -
A7.25.4.       Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -           -     -             -
A7.25.5.       Purge system                                        *                                                                           -           -     -             -
A7.25.6.       Remove/Install components
A7.25.6.1.     Oxygen regulator                                    *                                                                           -           -     -             -
A7.25.6.2.     Converter                                           *                                                                           -           -     -             -
A7.25.6.3.     Buildup/vent valve                                  *                                                                           -           -     -             -
A7.25.6.4.     Shutoff drain valve                                                                                                             -           -     -             -
A7.25.6.5.     Heat Exchanger                                                                                                                  -           -     -             -
A7.25.7.       Perform leak check                                  *                                                                           -           -     -             -
A7.25.8.       Clean components                                    *                                                                           -           -     -             -
A7.26.         MISCELLANEOUS SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable C-130 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A7.26.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A7.26.2.       Galley Systems                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A7.26.2.1.     Operational check                                                                                                               -           -     -             -
A7.26.2.2.     Troubleshoot System                                           *                                                                 -           -     -             -
A7.26.2.3.     Inspect                                                                                                                         -           -     -             -
A7.26.2.4.     Remove/Install components                                                                                                       -           -     -             -
A7.26.3.       Propeller Feather Electrical
A7.26.3.1.     Operational check                                                                                                               -       -         -         -
A7.26.3.2.     Troubleshoot System                                                                                                             -        -         -         -
A7.26.3.3.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -         -         -
A7.26.3.4.     Remove/Install Feather button                                                                                                   -        -         -         -
A7.26.4.       Static line retriever system
A7.26.4.1.     Operational check                                   *                                                                           -           -     -             -
A7.26.4.2.     Troubleshoot System                                           *                                                                 -           -     -             -



                                                                           126
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                             C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                      Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.26.4.3.     Inspect System Components                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.26.4.4.     Remove/Install components
A7.26.4.4.1.   Static line current limiter                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.26.4.4.2.   Static line switches                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.26.4.5.     Repair components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.26.4.6.     Bench Check Components                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A7.26.4.7.     Air Deflector Door
A7.26.4.7.1.   Operational Check                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.26.4.7.2.   Inspect                                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.26.4.7.3.   Troubleshoot                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A7.26.4.7.4.   Remove/Install system components                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.26.5.       UARRSI
               TR: Applicable TOs
A7.26.5.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.26.5.2.     Operational Check                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.26.5.3.     Troubleshoot System                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A7.26.5.4.     Inspect System Components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.26.5.5.     Remove/Install Components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.26.6.       Aerial Refueling System
               TR: Applicable TOs
A7.26.6.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.26.6.2.     Operational Check                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.26.6.3.     Troubleshoot System                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A7.26.6.4.     Inspect System Components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.26.6.5.     Remove/Install Components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.27.         COMMON MAINTENANCE PRACTICES
               TR: Applicable TOs
A7.27.1.       Dropped Object Program (DOPP)                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.27.2.       Defensive System (DS) familiarization (on applicable                                                                               -        -        -          -
               aircraft)
A7.28.         C-130 J MODEL APPLICABLE TASK
               TR: Applicable TOs
A7.28.1.       AC power systems
A7.28.1.1.     Operational Check of AC Power System using                                                                                        -         -        -          -
               Communication Navigation Identification
               Management Unit (CNI-MU)
A7.28.2.       Remove/Install Components
A7.28.2.1.     Overhead Electrical Control Panel                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.28.2.2.     Engine Generator Magnetic Indicator Plug                                                                                           -        -        -          -



                                                                              127
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 7
                                            C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                       Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                           5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.28.2.3.     Bulkhead Battery Panel Assembly                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A7.29.         DC POWER SYSTEM
A7.29.1.       Remove/Install components
A7.29.1.1.     Low Voltage Power Supply (LVPS)                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A7.29.1.2.     Power Panel Distribution Unit (PPDU)                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A7.29.1.3.     DC Power Diodes                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A7.29.2.       Load Electronic C/B Unit (ECBU) Software                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.29.3.       Perform ECBU IBIT                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.29.4.       Manipulate ECB’s using AMU (Avionics                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
               Management Unit)
A7.29.5.       Manipulate ECB’s using CNI-MU                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.29.6.       Manipulate ECB’s using Portable Maintenance Aid (PMA)                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.30.         EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
A7.30.1.       Load Operational Maintenance Program (OMP) with         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
               external power
A7.30.2.       Load Operational Maintenance Program (OMP) with                                                                                     -        -        -          -
               battery power
A7.31.         APU POWER SYSTEM
A7.31.1.       Operational check using CNI-MU                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.32.         LIGHTING SYSTEM
A7.32.1.       Operate Copilots lighting using CNI-MU                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A7.32.2.       Operate Pilots lighting using CNI-MU                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A7.32.3.       Operate External lighting using CNI-MU                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A7.32.4.       Operate Lighting control using AMU and HDD                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.32.5.       Operational Check of Emergency Exit Lighting            System                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.32.6.       Remove/Install Component
A7.32.6.1.     Multi-Channel Dimming Unit(MCDU)                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A7.32.6.2.     Dome Light Dimming Unit (DLDU)                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.32.6.3.     Emergency Exit Light Inertia Switch                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.32.6.4.     Emergency Exit Light Batteries                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.33.         LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
A7.33.1.       Operational Check using CNI-MU                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.34.         ANTI-SKID SYSTEM/WHEEL BRAKE                            SYSTEM
A7.34.1.       Operational Check using CNI-MU                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.34.2.       Perform IBIT of system                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A7.35.         OVERHEAT/FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
A7.35.1.       Operational Check of Fire & Overheat Detection System   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
               (FODS) Controller
A7.35.2.       Perform IBIT of FODS Controller                                                                                                     -        -        -          -


                                                                               128
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 7
                                              C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.36.         SMOKE DETECTION SYSTEM
A7.36.1.       Operational Check using AMU                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A7.36.2.       Remove/Install Smoke Detector                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A7.37          SYSTEM INTEGRATION AND DISPLAY
A7.37.1.       Operational Check of BAU (Type I or II)                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A7.37.2.       Remove/Install Component
A7.37.2.1.     Bus Adapter Unit (BAU)                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.37.2.2.     Bus Interface Unit (BIU)                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A7.38.         CARGO DOOR CONTROL AND WARNING                           SYSTEM
A7.38.1.       Operational Check using CNI-MU                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A7.39.         BLEED AIR ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL SYSTEM
               (BAECS)
A7.39.1.       Operational Check of Bleed Air EnvironmentalController                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.39.2.       Operational Check of Wing/Empennage Anti-ice System                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.39.3.       Operate Bleed Air Valves using CNI-MU                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A7.39.4.       Perform IBIT of BAECS Anti-Ice System                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A7.39.5.       Remove/Install
A7.39.5.1.     BAECS controller                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.39.5.2.     Pneumatic Controller                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A7.39.5.3.     Temperature Sensor                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.39.5.4.     Pressure Sensor                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A7.40.         ICE PROTECTION
A7.40.1.       Operational check of De-Ice Boot                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A7.40.2.       Calibrate De-ice Timer Unit (DITU)                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.40.3.       Operate Ice Protection System using CNI-MU                                                                                           -        -        -          -
               (NESA, WING/EMP, PROP)
A7.40.4.       Perform Leakage Checks
A7.40.4.1.     Connect and Disconnect bleed air adapter kit.                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A7.41.         AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
A7.41.1.       Operational Check using CNI-MU                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A7.42.         PRESSURIZATION
A7.42.1.       Operational Check using CNI-MU                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.42.2.       Remove/Install Components
A7.42.2.1.     Pressurization Control Panel                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A7.42.2.2.     Cabin Pressure Controller                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.42.2.3.     Outflow Valve Servo                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A7.42.2.4.     Cabin Pressure Transducer                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A7.42.3.       Cabin Pressure Controller IBIT                                                                                                       -        -        -          -



                                                                                129
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 7
                                             C-130 and C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A7.43.         COMMON MAINTENANCE PRACTICES
A7.43.1.       Access maintenance messages using AMU/HDD       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.43.2.       Operate Portable Maintenance Aid (PMA)          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.43.3.       Interpret Fault Isolation codes using Ground    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
               Maintenance System (GMS)
A7.43.4.       Perform Data Bus Test Points (DBTP) using PMA   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A7.43.5.       Removal and Installation Fundamentals
A7.43.5.1.     Type 1 Line Replaceable Units                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.43.5.2.     Type 2 Line Replaceable Units                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.43.5.3.     Type 3 Line Replaceable Units                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.43.5.4.     Type 4 Line Replaceable Units                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.43.5.5.     Type 5 Line Replaceable Units                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A7.43.6.       Enhanced cargo handling system
A7.43.6.1.     Operational Check of ECHS                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A7.43.7.       Remove/Install Component
A7.43.7.1.     Pallet Lock Control Unit (PLCU)                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A7.43.7.2.     Multi-Function Color Display (MFCD)                                                                                         -        -        -          -




                                                                       130
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 7
                                                        F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                             Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

Attachment 8
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, personnel assigned to maintain F-15 aircraft will perform the tasks and knowledge in attachment 8.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A8.1           AIRCRAFT FUNDAMENTALS
               Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.1.1.        Perform Aircraft safe for maintenance                         *                                                                          -         -         -        -
A8.2.           AC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.2.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.2.2.         Operational check
A8.2.2.1.       Main Generator System                                        *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.2.2.2.       Emergency Power System                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.2.3.         Troubleshoot
A8.2.3.1.       Main Generator System                                                  *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.2.3.2.       Emergency Power System                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.2.4.         Inspect System Components                                              *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.2.5.         Remove components
A8.2.5.1.       Integrated Drive Generator (IDG)                             *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.2.5.2.       Generator Control Unit (GCU)                                 *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.2.5.3.       Power contactor                                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.2.5.4.       IDG Filters                                                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.2.5.5.       Relay Panels                                                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.2.5.6.       Circuit Breaker Panels                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.2.6.         Repair components
A8.2.6.1.       Generator                                                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.2.6.2.       Constant Speed Drive (CSD)                                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.2.6.3.       Assemble IDG                                                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.2.6.4.       Disassemble IDG                                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.2.6.5.       Relay Panels                                                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.2.6.6.       Circuit Breaker Panels                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.2.7.         Install components
A8.2.7.1.       IDG                                                          *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.2.7.2.       GCU                                                          *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.2.7.3.       Power contactor                                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.2.7.4.       IDG Filters                                                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.2.7.5.       Relay Panels                                                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.2.7.6.       Circuit Breaker Panels                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -

                                                                                     131
                                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 8
                                               F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.2.8.        Bench check
A8.2.8.1.      Generator                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.2.8.2.      CSD                                                                                                                  -         -        -         -
A8.2.8.3.      Relay Panels                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.2.8.4.      Circuit Breaker Panels                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.2.9.        Service IDG                              *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.3.          DC POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.3.2.        Operational check                        *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.3.3.        Troubleshoot                                       *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.3.4.        Inspect System Components                          *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.3.5.        Remove components
A8.3.5.1.      DC Power Contactor                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.3.5.2.      Transformer Rectifier                    *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.3.5.3.      Circuit Breaker Panels                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.3.5.4.      Relay Panels                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.3.6.        Repair components
A8.3.6.1.      Circuit Breaker Panels                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.3.6.2.      Relay Panels                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.3.7.        Install components
A8.3.7.1.      DC Power Contactor                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.3.7.2.      Transformer Rectifier                    *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.3.7.3.      Circuit Breaker Panels                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.3.7.4.      Relay Panels                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.4.          EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.4.2.        Operational check                        *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.4.3.        Apply external power                     *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.4.4.        Troubleshoot                                       *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.4.5.        Inspect System Components                          *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.4.6.        Remove components
A8.4.6.1.      External Power Receptacle                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.4.6.2.      External Power Monitor                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.4.6.3.       External Power Contactor                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.4.7.        Install components
A8.4.7.1.      External Power Receptacle                                                                                            -         -        -         -


                                                                132
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 8
                                               F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.4.7.2.      External Power Monitor                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.4.7.3.      External Power Contactor                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.5.          LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.5.1.        Operational fundamentals
A8.5.1.1.      Exterior                                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.5.1.2.      Interior                                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.5.1.3.      Emergency                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.5.2.        Operational check
A8.5.2.1.      Exterior                                 *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.5.2.2.      Interior                                 *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.5.2.3.      Emergency                                *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.5.3.        Troubleshoot
A8.5.3.1.      Exterior                                           *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.5.3.2.      Interior                                           *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.5.3.3.      Emergency                                          *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.5.4.        Inspect System Components
A8.5.4.1.      Exterior                                           *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.5.4.2.      Interior                                           *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.5.4.3.      Emergency                                          *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.        Remove components
A8.5.5.1.      Position Lights                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.2.      Anti-Collision Lights                    *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.3.      Formation Lights                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.4.      Tail Flood Lights                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.5.      IFR Flood Light                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.6.      IFR Slipway Lights                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.7.      Flasher assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.8.      Lighting Control Panel                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.9.      Lights Trim Panel                        *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.10.     Light Assemblies                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.11.     Power Supply                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.5.5.12.     Map Light                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.5.6.        Repair components
A8.5.6.1.      Position Lights                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.5.6.2.      Anti-Collision Lights                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.5.6.3.      Taxi Light                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.5.6.4.      Landing Light                                                                                                        -         -        -         -

                                                                133
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 8
                                               F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.5.6.5.      IFR Flood Light                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.5.6.6.      Lighting Control Panel                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.5.6.7.      Lights Trim Panel                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.5.6.8.      Light Assemblies                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.5.6.9.      Power Supply                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.5.6.10.     Map Light                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.        Install components
A8.5.7.1.      Position Lights                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.2.      Anti-Collision Lights                    *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.3.      Formation Lights                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.4.      Tail Flood Lights                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.5.      IFR Flood Light                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.6.      IFR Slipway Lights                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.7.      Flasher assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.8.      Lighting Control Panel                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.9.      Lights Trim Panel                        *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.10.     Light Assemblies                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.11.     Power Supply                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.5.7.12.     Map Light                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.5.8.        Bench check components
A8.5.8.1.      Position Lights                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.5.8.2.      Anti-Collision Lights                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.5.8.3       Taxi Light                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.5.8.4.      Landing Light                                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.5.8.5.      IFR Flood Light                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.5.8.6.      Lights Trim Panel                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.5.8.7.      Light Assemblies                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.5.8.8.      Power Supply                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.5.8.9.      Map Light                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.6.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.6.2.        Operational check                        *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.6.3.        Troubleshoot                                       *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.6.4.        Inspect System Components                          *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.6.5.        Remove components
A8.6.5.1.      Landing Gear Control Handle              *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.6.5.2.      Control Switches                                                                                                     -         -        -         -

                                                                134
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 8
                                               F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.6.6.        Install components
A8.6.6.1.      Landing Gear Control Handle              *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.6.6.2.      Control Switches                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.6.7.        Adjust switches                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.7.          ARRESTING HOOK INDICATION AND
               WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.7.2.        Operational check                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.7.3.        Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.7.4.        Inspect System Components                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.7.5.        Remove components
A8.7.5.1.      Control switches                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.7.5.2.      Up limit switches                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.7.5.3.      Safety interlock switches                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.7.6.        Install components
A8.7.6.1.      Control switches                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.7.6.2.      Up limit switches                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.7.6.3.      Safety interlock switches                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.7.7.         Adjust switches                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.8.          CANOPY INDICATION AND WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.8.2.        Operational check                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.8.3.        Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.8.4.        Inspect System Components                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.8.5.        Remove components
A8.8.5.1.      Canopy position switch                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.8.5.2.      Canopy lock position switch                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.8.5.3.      Warning lights                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.8.6.        Install components
A8.8.6.1.      Canopy position switch                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.8.6.2.      Canopy lock position switch                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.8.6.3.      Warning lights                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.8.7.        Adjust switches                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.9.          ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 Tos
A8.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.9.2.        Operational check                        *                                                                           -         -        -         -


                                                                135
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 8
                                               F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core              3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                   A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5            7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.9.3.        Troubleshoot                                      *                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.9.4.        Inspect System Components                             *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.9.5.        Remove components
A8.9.5.1.      Control Box                              *                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.9.5.2.      Control Panel                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.9.5.3.      Brake Pulsar Unit                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.9.5.4.      Wheel speed detector                     *                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.9.6.        Repair control panel                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.9.7.        Install components
A8.9.7.1.      Control Box                              *                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.9.7.2.      Control Panel                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.9.7.3.      Brake Pulsar Unit                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.9.7.4.      Wheel speed detector                     *                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.9.8.        Bench check control panel                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.10.         BRAKE HOLDING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.10.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.10.2.       Operational Check                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.10.3.       Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.10.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.10.5.       Remove Brake Hold Switch                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.10.6.       Repair Throttle Quadrant                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.10.7.       Install Brake Hold Switch                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.10.8.       Bench check throttle quadrant                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.11.         NOSE GEAR STEERING SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.11.2.       Operational check                        *                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.11.3.       Troubleshoot                                          *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.11.4.       Inspect System Components                             *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.11.5.       Remove range limit switch                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.11.6.       Install range limit switch                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.12.         SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.12.2.       Operational check
A8.12.2.1.     Flaps                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.12.2.2.     Speed brake                                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.12.3.       Troubleshoot

                                                                136
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 8
                                               F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.12.3.1.     Flaps                                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.12.3.2.     Speed brake                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.12.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.12.5.       Remove flap airspeed switch                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.12.6.       Install flap airspeed switch                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.13.         OVERHEAT/FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.13.1.       Operational fundamentals
A8.13.1.1.     Engine                                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.13.1.2.     Bleed Air Leak Detection                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.13.2.       Operational check
A8.13.2.1.     Engine                                   *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.13.2.2.     Bleed Air Leak Detection                 *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.13.3.       Troubleshoot
A8.13.3.1.     Engine                                             *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.13.3.2.     Bleed Air Leak Detection                           *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.13.4.       Inspect System Components                          *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.13.5.       Remove components
A8.13.5.1.     Sensing Elements                         *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.13.5.2.     Control Box                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.13.5.3.     Control Panel                                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.13.6.       Repair components
A8.13.6.1.     Control Panel                                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.13.7.       Install components
A8.13.7.1.     Sensing Elements                         *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.13.7.2.     Control Box                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.13.7.3.     Control Panel                                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.13.8.       Bench check components
A8.13.8.1.     Control Panel                                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.14.         FIRE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.14.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.14.2.       Operational check                        *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.14.3.       Troubleshoot                                       *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.14.4.       Inspect System Components                          *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.14.5.       Remove components
A8.14.5.1.     Squib                                    *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.14.5.2.     Fire bottle                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.14.6.       Install components

                                                                137
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 8
                                                         F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.14.6.1.     Squib                                                 *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.14.6.2.     Fire bottle                                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.15.         MASTER CAUTION/WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.15.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.15.2.       Operational check                                     *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.15.3.       Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.15.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.15.5.       Remove components
A8.15.5.1.     Master Caution Light Assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.15.5.2.     Master Caution display panely                         *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.15.6.       Install components
A8.15.6.1.     Master Caution Light Assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.15.6.2.     Master Caution display panel                          *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.16.         FUEL WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.16.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.16.2.       Operational check                                                                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.16.3.       Troubleshoot                                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.16.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.16.5.       Remove fuel system ground preflight test panel                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.16.6.       Repair fuel system ground preflight test panel                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.16.7.       Install fuel system ground preflight test panel                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.16.8.       Bench check fuel system ground preflight test panel                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.16.9.       IFR Door Squibs
A8.16.9.1.     Remove                                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.16.9.2.     Install                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.17.         START AND IGNITION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A8.17.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.17.2.       Operational check                                                                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.17.3.       Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.17.4.       Inspect wiring                                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.18.         BLEED AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A8.18.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.18.2.       Operational check                                     *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.18.3.       Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.18.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -         -


                                                                             138
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 8
                                                       F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.18.5.       Remove components
A8.18.5.1.     Backup valve                                       *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.18.5.2.     Final stage valve                                  *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.18.5.3.     Final stage valve solenoid                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.18.5.4.     Final stage valve filter                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.18.5.5.     Ejector valve                                                                                                                  -         -        -         -
A8.18.5.6.     Bypass valve                                       *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.18.5.7.     Sensors                                                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.18.5.8.     Ducts                                              *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.18.5.9.     Tubing                                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.18.5.10.    Primary heat exchanger                             *
A8.18.6.       Install components
A8.18.6.1.     Backup valve                                       *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.18.6.2.     Final stage valve                                  *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.18.6.3.     Final stage valve solenoid                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.18.6.4.     Final stage valve filter                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.18.6.5.     Ejector valve                                                                                                                  -         -        -         -
A8.18.6.6.     Bypass valve                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.18.6.7.     Sensors                                                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.18.6.8.     Ducts                                              *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.18.6.9.     Tubing                                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.18.6.10.    Primary heat exchanger
A8.18.7.       Perform leakage checks                             *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.         AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A8.19.1.       Operational fundamentals
A8.19.1.1.     High pressure air conditioning system                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.19.1.2.     Air cycle air conditioning system                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.19.1.3.     Cabin temperature control                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.19.1.4.     Avionics temperature control                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.19.1.5.     Low pressure air conditioning system                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.2.       Subsystem Fundamentals
A8.19.2.1.     Anti-G suit system                                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.19.2.2.     Defogging system                                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.19.3.       Operational check
A8.19.3.1.     Air conditioning systems                           *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.3.2.     Cabin Temperature Control                          *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.3.3.     Avionics Temperature Control                       *                                                                           -         -        -         -

                                                                          139
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 8
                                                        F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.19.3.4.     Anti-G suit system                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.19.3.5.     Defogging system                                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.19.4.       Troubleshoot
A8.19.4.1.     Air conditioning systems                                    *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.19.4.2.     Cabin Temperature Control                                   *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.19.4.3.     Avionics Temperature Control                                *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.19.4.4.     Anti-G suit system                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.19.4.5.     Defogging system                                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.19.5.       Inspect system components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.       Remove components
A8.19.6.1.     Condenser/Liquid Coolant Heat Exchanger           *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.2.     High pressure water separator modulating valve                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.3.     Regenerative heat exchanger                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.4.     Regenerative heat exchanger modulating valve                                                                                  -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.5.     Reheater heat exchanger                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.6.     Secondary heat exchanger                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.7.     Secondary heat exchanger ejector valve                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.8.     Secondary heat exchanger ejector                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.9.     Fuel pressurization heat exchanger                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.10.    Turbine/Compressor                                *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.11.    Turbine compressor bypass valve                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.12.    Turbine compressor modulating bypass valve                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.13.    Turbine compressor modulating shutoff valve       *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.14.    Water extractor/separator                         *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.15.    Anti fog heat exchanger                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.16.    Anti fog modulating valve                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.17.    Anti ice valve                                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.18.    Check valve                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.19.    Cabin air circuit controller                                                                                                  -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.20.    Cabin hot air valve                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.21.    Cabin inlet modulating/shutoff valve                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.22.    Cabin ram air valve                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.23.    Cabin ram air valve limit switch                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.24.    Cabin water separator                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.25.    Air conditioning control panel                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.26.    Avionics air circuit controller                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.27.    Avionics equipment hot air valve                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.28.    Avionics cold air modulating valve                                                                                            -         -        -         -

                                                                         140
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 8
                                                        F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.19.6.29.    Avionics cooling monitor unit                                                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.30.    Avionics flow control modulating valve                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.31.    Displays cooling differential pressure switch                                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.32.    ICMS cooling control valve                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.33.    Sensors                                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.34.    Ducting                                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.19.6.35.    Anti-G valve                                                                                                                  -         -        -         -
A8.19.7.       Repair air conditioning control panel                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.       Install components
A8.19.8.1.     Condenser/Liquid Coolant Heat Exchanger           *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.2.     High pressure water separator modulating valve                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.3.     Regenerative heat exchanger                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.4.     Regenerative heat exchanger modulating valve                                                                                  -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.5.     Reheater heat exchanger                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.6.     Secondary heat exchanger                                                                                                      -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.7.     Secondary heat exchanger ejector valve                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.8.     Secondary heat exchanger ejector                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.9.     Fuel pressurization heat exchanger                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.10.    Turbine/Compressor                                *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.11.    Turbine compressor bypass valve                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.12.    Turbine compressor modulating bypass valve                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.13.    Turbine compressor modulating shutoff valve       *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.14.    Water extractor/separator                         *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.15.    Anti fog heat exchanger                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.16.    Anti fog modulating valve                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.17.    Anti ice valve                                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.18.    Check valve                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.19.    Cabin air circuit controller                                                                                                  -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.20.    Cabin hot air valve                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.21.    Cabin inlet modulating/shutoff valve                                                                                          -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.22.    Cabin ram air valve                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.23.    Cabin ram air valve limit switch                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.24.    Cabin water separator                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.25.    Air conditioning control panel                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.26.    Avionics air circuit controller                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.27.    Avionics equipment hot air valve                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.28.    Avionics cold air modulating valve                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.29.    Avionics cooling monitor unit                                                                                                 -         -        -         -

                                                                         141
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 8
                                                        F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.19.8.30.    Avionics flow control modulating valve                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.31.    Displays cooling differential pressure switch                                                                                  -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.32.    ICMS cooling control valve                                                                                                     -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.33.    Sensors                                                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.34.    Ducting                                                                                                                        -         -        -         -
A8.19.8.35.    Anti-G valve                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.19.9.       Perform leakage checks                             *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.19.10.      Service cooling turbine                            *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.20.         PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A8.20.1.       Operational fundamentals
A8.20.1.1.     Aircraft pressurization system                                                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.20.1.2.     Canopy seal pressurization system                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.20.2.       Operational check
A8.20.2.1.     Aircraft Pressurization system                     *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.20.2.2.     Canopy seal pressurization system                  *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.20.3.       Troubleshoot
A8.20.3.1.     Aircraft pressurization system                               *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.20.3.2.     Canopy seal pressurization system                            *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.20.4.       Inspect system components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.20.5.       Remove components
A8.20.5.1.     Safety valve                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.20.5.2.     Cabin pressure regulator                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.20.5.3.     Canopy seal                                        *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.20.5.4.     Canopy seal pressure regulator                                                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.20.6.       Install components
A8.20.6.1.     Safety valve                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.20.6.2.     Cabin pressure regulator                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.20.6.3.     Canopy seal                                        *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.20.6.4.     Canopy seal pressure regulator                                                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.21.         LIQUID COOLANT SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A8.21.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -         -
A8.21.2.       Operational Check                                  *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.21.3.       Troubleshoot                                                 *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.21.4.       Inspect system components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.21.5.       Remove LCS pump                                                                                                                -         -        -         -
A8.21.6.       Install LCS pump                                                                                                               -         -        -         -


                                                                          142
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 8
                                                   F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                      Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.21.7.       Service                                                *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.         LIQUID OXYGEN SYSTEM
               TR: AFOSH standards, TOs 15X1-1, 42B5-1-2, 42E1-1-1,
               Applicable F-15 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A8.22.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.2.       Operational check                                      *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.3.       Troubleshoot                                                     *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.22.4.       Inspect system components                                        *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.22.5.       Purge
A8.22.5.1.     System                                                 *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.5.2.     Converter                                              *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.6.       Remove components
A8.22.6.1.     Converter                                              *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.6.2.     Oxygen gauge                                           *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.6.3.     Oxygen regulator                                       *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.7.       Repair Converter                                                                                                                   -         -        -         -
A8.22.8.       Install components
A8.22.8.1.     Converter                                              *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.8.2.     Oxygen gauge                                           *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.8.3.     Oxygen regulator                                       *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.9.       Perform leak check                                     *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.22.10.      Drain Converter                                                                                                                    -         -        -         -
A8.22.11.      Service Converter                                                                                                                  -         -        -         -
 A8.23.        EMERGENCY BAILOUT BOTTLES
A8.23.1.       Inspect                                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.23.2.       Repair                                                                                                                             -         -        -         -
A8.23.3.       Purge                                                                                                                              -         -        -         -
A8.23.4.       Service                                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.23.5.       Leak check                                                                                                                         -         -        -         -
A8.24.         MOLECULAR SIEVE OXYGEN GENERATING
               SYSTEM (MSOGS)
               TR: Applicable F-15 TOs
A8.24.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.24.2.       Operational check                                      *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.24.3.       Troubleshoot                                                     *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.24.4.       Inspect system components                                        *                                                                 -         -        -         -
A8.24.5.       Remove components
A8.24.5.1.     Concentrator                                           *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.24.5.2.      Oxygen Regulator                                      *                                                                           -         -        -         -


                                                                              143
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                               F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A8.24.5.3.     Tubing                                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.24.5.4.     Bit Panel                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.24.5.5.     Filter                                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.24.6.       Install components
A8.24.6.1.     Concentrator                             *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.24.6.2.     Oxygen Regulator                         *                                                                           -         -        -         -
A8.24.6.3.     Tubing                                                                                                               -         -        -         -
A8.24.6.4.     Bit Panel                                                                                                            -         -        -         -
A8.24.6.5.     Filter                                                                                                               -         -        -         -




                                                                144
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 8
                                                         F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                             Tasks                                                                       Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 9
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 9 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain F-16 aircraft
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A9.1.           AIRCRAFT FUNDAMENTALS
A9.1.1.        Perform aircraft safe for maintenance                         *                                                                           -         -         -        -
A9.2.           METERS AND TESTERS
                TR: Applicable 33 series TOs
A9.2.1.         Use ECS tester                                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.2.2.         Use sonic leak detector                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A9.2.3.         Use cockpit cabin pressure leakage tester                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.2.4.         Use anti-skid tester                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A9.2.5.         Use bonding meter                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.2.6.         Use USM-128                                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.2.7.         Use EPU maintenance test set                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.2.8.         Use Enhanced Diagnostics Unit (EDNA)/                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
                Viper Memory Load Verifier (V-MLV)
A9.2.9.         Use Oxygen Regulator Tester                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.3.           AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM, COMPRESSION
                TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / 8 series and 15 series
                component TOs
A9.3.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.3.2.         Operational check                                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.3.3.         Troubleshoot                                                            *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.3.4.         Inspect                                                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.3.5.         Remove components
A9.3.5.1.       Low stage valve                                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.3.5.2.       High stage valve                                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.3.5.3.       Bleed air check valve                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.3.5.4.       Variable Air Pressure Regulator (VAPR)                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.3.5.5.       Environmental Control Sensor                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.3.5.6.       Servo Air Filter Element                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.3.5.7.       Other system components                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A9.3.6.         Repair Components                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.3.7.         Install components
A9.3.7.1.       Low stage valve                                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.3.7.2.       High stage valve                                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.3.7.3.       Bleed air check valve                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -


                                                                                      145
                                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 9
                                                         F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.3.7.4.      Variable Air Pressure Regulator (VAPR)                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.3.7.5.      Environmental Control Sensor                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.3.7.6.      Servo air filter element                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.3.7.7.      Other system components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.3.8.        Perform Leak Checks                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.3.9.        Bench check components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.4.          AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM, DISTRIBUTION
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs
A9.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.4.2.        Operational check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.4.3.        Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.4.4.        Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.4.5.        Remove Components
A9.4.5.1.      Electronic Equipment sensors controller             */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.4.5.2.      Priority Valve                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.4.5.3.      Electronic cooling mod valve                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.4.5.4.      Cold air shutoff drive valve                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.4.5.5.      Radar cooling shutoff valve                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.4.5.6.      Other system components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.4.6.        Install Components
A9.4.6.1.      Electronic Equipment sensors controller             */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.4.6.2.      Priority Valve                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.4.6.3.      Electronic cooling mod valve                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.4.6.4.      Cold air shutoff drive valve                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.4.6.5.      Radar cooling shutoff valve                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.4.6.6.      Other system components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.4.7.        Perform leakage checks                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.5.          AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM, PRESSURIZATION
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / 15 series component TOs
A9.5.1.        Operational fundamentals
A9.5.1.1.      Aircraft Pressurization System                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.5.1.2.      Canopy Seal Pressurization System                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.5.1.3.      Anti-G Suit System                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.5.2.        Operational Check
A9.5.2.1.      Pressurization system                               */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.5.2.2.      Canopy Seal                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.5.2.3.      Anti-G                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.5.2.4.      Other system components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -


                                                                           146
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 9
                                                      F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.5.3.        Troubleshoot                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.5.4.        Inspect                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.5.5.        Remove components
A9.5.5.1.      Canopy Seal Filter Element                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.5.5.2.      Canopy Seal                                     *
A9.5.5.3.      Canopy seal regulator                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.5.5.4.      Anti-G valve                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.5.5.5.      Cabin pressure regulator                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.5.5.6.      Cabin pressure relief and dump valve                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.5.5.7.      Other system components                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.5.6.        Repair Components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.5.7.        Install components
A9.5.7.1.      Canopy Seal Filter Element                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.5.7.2.      Canopy Seal                                     *
A9.5.7.3.      Canopy seal regulator                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.5.7.4.      Anti-G valve                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.5.7.5.      Cabin pressure regulator                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.5.7.6.      Cabin pressure relief and dump valve                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.5.7.7.      Other system components                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.5.8.        Perform Leakage checks                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.5.9.        Bench check components                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A9.6.          AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM, COOLING
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs
A9.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.6.2.        Operational check                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.6.3.        Troubleshoot                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.6.4.        Inspect                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.6.5.        Remove components
A9.6.5.1.      Water Separator Coalescer                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.6.5.2.      Cooling Air Turbine compressor                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.6.5.3.      Regenerative heat exchanger                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.6.5.4.      Primary and secondary heat exchanger                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.6.5.5.      Water separator anti-ice modulating valve                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A9.6.5.6.      Hot air sensor controller                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A9.6.5.7.      Hot air control valve                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A9.6.5.8.      Other Components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A9.6.6.        Repair components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.6.7.        Install components

                                                                       147
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 9
                                                      F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.6.7.1.      Water Separator Coalescer                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.6.7.2.      Cooling Air Turbine compressor                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.6.7.3.      Regenerative heat exchanger                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.6.7.4.      Primary and secondary heat exchanger                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.6.7.5.      Water separator anti-ice modulating valve                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A9.6.7.6.      Hot air sensor controller                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A9.6.7.7.      Hot air control valve                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A9.6.7.8.      Other Components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A9.6.8.        Perform Leakage checks                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.7.          AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM, TEMPERATURE
               CONTROL
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs
A9.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.7.2.        Operational check                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.7.3.        Troubleshoot                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.7.4.        Inspect                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.7.5.        Remove components
A9.7.5.1.      Cabin temperature sensor/controller             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.7.5.2.      Cabin temperature control valve                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A9.7.5.3.      Air conditioning control panel                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.7.5.4.      Cabin temperature sensor fan                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.7.5.5.      Cabin temperature sensor                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.7.5.6.      Defog switches                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.7.5.7.      Other system components                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.7.6.        Repair components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.7.7.        Install components
A9.7.7.1.      Cabin temperature sensor/controller             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.7.7.2.      Cabin temperature control valve                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A9.7.7.3.      Air conditioning control panel                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.7.7.4.      Cabin temperature sensor fan                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.7.7.5.      Cabin temperature sensor                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.7.7.6.      Defog switches                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.7.7.7.      Other system components                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.7.8.        Bench check components                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A9.8.          AC ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16
A9.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.8.2.        Operational check                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.8.3.        Troubleshoot                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -

                                                                       148
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 9
                                                     F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core               3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                                                          Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.8.4.        Inspect                                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.8.5.        Remove components
A9.8.5.1.      CSD/GEN                                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.8.5.2.      Main GCU                                           *                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.8.5.3.      Standby Generator                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.8.5.4.      Standby GCU                                        *                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.8.5.5.      Standby generator converter                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.8.5.6.      Over current protection panels                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.8.5.7.      Main bus power contactors                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.8.5.8.      Other system components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A9.8.6.        Repair components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.8.7.        Install components
A9.8.7.1.      CSD/GEN                                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.8.7.2.      Main GCU                                           *                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.8.7.3.      Standby Generator                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.8.7.4.      Standby GCU                                        *                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.8.7.5.      Standby generator converter                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.8.7.6.      Over current protection panels                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.8.7.7.      Main bus power contactors                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.8.7.8.      Other system components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A9.8.8.        Bench check components                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A9.9.          DC ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A9.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.9.2.        Operational check
A9.9.2.1.      DC Power Generation                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.9.3.        Troubleshoot                                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.9.4.        Inspect                                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.9.5.        Remove components
A9.9.5.1.      DC Converters                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A9.9.5.2.      Battery Charger Control Unit (BCCU)                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.9.5.3.      Aircraft battery                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.9.6.        Repair components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.9.7.        Install components
A9.9.7.1.      DC Converters                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A9.9.7.2.      Battery Charger Control Unit (BCCU)                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.9.7.3.      Aircraft battery                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.9.8.        Bench check components                                                                                                             -        -        -          -

                                                                              149
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                                     F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.10.         EXTERNAL ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A9.10.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A9.10.2.       Operational check                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.10.3.       Apply external Power                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.10.4.       Remove external power                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.10.5.       Lubricate external power receptacle                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.10.6.       Troubleshoot                                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.10.7.       Inspect                                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.10.8.       Remove components
A9.10.8.1.     External power receptacle                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A9.10.8.2.     External power monitor                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.10.9.       Repair components                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.10.10.      Install components
A9.10.10.1.    External power receptacle                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A9.10.10.2.    External power monitor                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.10.11.      Bench check components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.11.         ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM, DISTRIBUTION
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs
A9.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A9.11.2.       Operational check                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.11.3.       Troubleshoot                                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.11.4.       Inspect                                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.11.5.       Remove components                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.11.6.       Install components                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A9.12.         OVERHEAT/FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs and 8 series component     TOs
A9.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A9.12.2.       Operational check                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.12.3.       Troubleshoot                                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.12.4.       Inspect                                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.12.5.       Remove components
A9.12.5.1.     Fire detection set control unit                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.12.5.2.     Overheat detection set control unit                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A9.12.5.3.     Fire and overheat sensing elements                 */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.12.6.       Repair components                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.12.7.       Install components
A9.12.7.1.     Fire detection set control unit                                                                                                -        -        -          -


                                                                          150
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 9
                                                     F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                    Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.12.7.2.     Overheat detection set control unit                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.12.7.3.     Fire and overheat sensing elements                   */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.13.         FUEL INERTING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / 8 series component TOs /
               TO 6J14-4-9-2
A9.13.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.13.2.       Operational check                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.13.3.       Troubleshoot                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.13.4.       Inspect                                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.13.5.       Remove components                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.13.6.       Repair components                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.13.7.       Install components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.13.8.       Service Halon Bottle
A9.13.8.1.     Service with nitrogen                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.13.8.2.     Service with halon                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.13.9.       Bench check components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.14.         FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS, SPEEDBRAKES
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs
A9.14.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.14.2.       Operational check                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.14.3.       Troubleshoot                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.14.4.       Inspect                                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.14.5.       Remove components
A9.14.5.1.     43-degree switch                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.14.5.2.     Speed brake close position switch                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.14.6.       Install components
A9.14.6.1.     43-degree switch                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.14.6.2.     Speed brake close position switch                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.15.         FUEL SYSTEM, DISTRIBUTION
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs
A9.15.1.       Operational fundamentals
A9.15.1.1.     Aerial Refuel System                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A9.15.1.2.     Engine Fuel Shutoff                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.15.1.3.     Fuel Distribution                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.15.2.       Operational check
A9.15.2.1.     Fuel shutoff valve                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.15.2.2.     Other system components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.15.3.       Troubleshoot                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.15.4.       Inspect                                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -

                                                                            151
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 9
                                                    F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.15.5.       Remove components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.15.6.       Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.15.7.       Install components                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.15.8.       Bench check components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.16.         LANDING GEAR EXTENTION AND
               RETRACTION
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / 16 series component TOs
A9.16.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.16.2.       Operational check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.16.3.       Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.16.4.       Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.16.5.       Remove components
A9.16.5.1.     Landing gear control handle                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.16.5.2.     Landing gear control panel                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.16.5.3.     Other system components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.16.6.       Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.16.7.       Install components
A9.16.7.1.     Landing gear control handle                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.16.7.2.     Landing gear control panel                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.16.7.3.     Other system components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.16.8.       Bench check components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.17.         LANDING GEAR WHEELS AND BRAKES
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A9.17.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.17.2.       Operational check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.17.3.       Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.17.4.       Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.17.5.       Remove components
A9.17.5.1.     Brake control/anti-skid assembly                    *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A9.17.5.2.     Main weight on wheel switch                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A9.17.5.3.     Wheel speed sensor/transducer                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -

A9.17.5.4.     Other system components                                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A9.17.6.       Install components
A9.17.6.1.     Brake control/anti-skid assembly                    *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A9.17.6.2.     Main weight on wheel switch                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A9.17.6.3.     Wheel speed sensor/transducer                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A9.17.6.4.     Other system components                                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A9.18.         NOSE WHEEL STEERING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs

                                                                           152
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                                     F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.18.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A9.18.2.       Operational check                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.18.3.       Adjust feedback potentiometer                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.18.4.       Troubleshoot                                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.18.5.       Inspect                                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.18.6.       Remove components
A9.18.6.1.     Feedback potentiometer                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.18.6.2.     Command potentiometer                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.18.6.3.     Steering control box                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.18.6.4.     Nose landing gear weight-on-wheel switch           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.18.6.5.     Other system components                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.18.7.       Install components
A9.18.7.1.     Feedback potentiometer                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.18.7.2.     Command potentiometer                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.18.7.3.     Steering control box                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.18.7.4.     Nose landing gear weight-on-wheel switch           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.18.7.5.     Other system components                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A9.19.         LANDING GEAR POSITION AND WARNING
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A9.19.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A9.19.2.       Operational check                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.19.3.       Troubleshoot                                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.19.4.       Inspect                                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.19.5.       Remove components
A9.19.5.1.     MLG down lock switch                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.19.5.2.     NLG down lock switch                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.19.5.3.     MLG up lock switch                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.19.6.       Repair components                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A9.19.7.       Install components
A9.19.7.1.     MLG down lock switch                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.19.7.2.     NLG down lock switch                               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.19.7.3.     MLG up lock switch                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.19.8.       Bench check components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.20.         ARRESTING HOOK
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs
A9.20.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A9.20.2.       Operational check                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.20.3.       Troubleshoot                                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -


                                                                          153
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 9
                                                      F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                      Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.20.4.       Inspect                                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.20.5.       Remove components
A9.20.5.1.     Up lock switch                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.20.6.       Install components
A9.20.6.1.     Up lock switch                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.21.         INTERNAL LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / 8 series and 16 series TOs
A9.21.1.       Operational fundamentals
A9.21.1.1.     Internal cockpit lighting system                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A9.21.1.2.     Master caution/warning system                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A9.21.2.       Operational check                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.21.3.       Troubleshoot                                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.21.4.       Inspect                                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.21.5.       Remove components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.21.6.       Repair components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.21.7.       Install components                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.21.8.       Bench check components                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A9.22.         EXTERNAL LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs
A9.22.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.22.2.       Operational check                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.22.3.       Troubleshoot                                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.22.4.       Inspect                                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.22.5.       Remove components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.22.6.       Repair components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.22.7.       Install components                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.22.8.       Bench check components                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A9.23.         LIQUID OXYGEN SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / AFOSH Standards /
               TO 15X-1-1
A9.23.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.23.2.       Operational check
A9.23.2.1.     60/180 day oxygen regulator                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.23.2.2.     Oxygen system tubing purge                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.23.2.3.     Hot purge liquid oxygen converter                      */R                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.23.2.4.     Other system operational checks                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.23.3.       Troubleshoot                                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.23.4.       Inspect                                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.23.5.       Remove components

                                                                              154
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                                       F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.23.5.1.     Converter                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.23.5.2.      Regulator                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.23.5.3.     Other system components                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A9.23.6.       Install components
A9.23.6.1.     Converter                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.23.6.2.      Regulator                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.23.6.3.     Other system components                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A9.23.7.       Perform leak checks                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.23.8.       Clean components                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.23.9.       Bench check components                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A9.24.         ON BOARD OXYGEN GENERATING SYSTEM
               (OBOGS)
A9.24.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.24.2.       Operational check                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.24.3.       Troubleshoot                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.24.4.       Inspect                                                    *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.24.5.       Remove Components
A9.24.5.1.     OBOGS Concentrator                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.24.5.2.     OBOGS Monitor                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.24.5.3.     Oxygen regulator OBOGS                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.24.6.       Install Components
A9.24.6.1.     OBOGS Concentrator                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.24.6.2.     OBOGS Monitor                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.24.6.3.     Oxygen regulator OBOGS                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.25.         ELECTRICAL PANELS AND MULTIPURPOSECOMPONENTS
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs,
A9.25.1.       Operational check                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A9.25.2.       Troubleshoot                                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.25.3.       Inspect                                                    *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.25.4.       Remove components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A9.25.5.       Repair components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A9.25.6.       Install components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.25.7        Bench check components                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A9.26.         EMERGENCY POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs
A9.26.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A9.26.2.       Hydrazine safety                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A9.26.3.       Operational check
A9.26.3.1.     EPU auto manual start signal checkout            *                                                                           -        -        -          -

                                                                        155
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 9
                                                       F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                    Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A9.26.3.2.     EPU mono-propellant mode checkout                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.26.3.3.     EPU bleed air mode checkout                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.26.3.4      EPU safe for maintenance                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.26.3.5.     Other systems                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A9.26.4.       Troubleshoot                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.26.5.       Inspect                                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.26.6.       Remove components
A9.26.6.1.     EPU speed controller                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.26.6.2.     EPU bleed air regulator shutoff valve                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.26.6.3.     Other system components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.26.7.       Repair components                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.26.8.       Install components
A9.26.8.1.     EPU speed controller                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.26.8.2.     EPU bleed air regulator shutoff valve                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.26.8.3.     Other system components                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A9.26.9.       Bench check components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.27.         ENGINE STARTING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TOs / 6 Series Component TOs /
               8 Series Component TOs
A9.27.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.27.2.       Operational check
A9.27.2.1.     Jet fuel starter weight-on-wheels                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.27.2.2.     Other system operational checks                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A9.27.3.       Troubleshoot                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.27.4.       Inspect                                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.27.5.       Remove components                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.27.6.       Repair components                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.27.7.       Install components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A9.27.8.       Bench check components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.28.         CANOPY ACTUATION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable F-16 TO
A9.28.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A9.28.2.       Operational check                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A9.28.3.       Troubleshoot                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.28.4.       Inspect                                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A9.28.5.       Remove components                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A9.28.6.       Install components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -




                                                                            156
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 9
                                                      KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                           2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                           Tasks                                                                       Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                    A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                    3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 10
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 10 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain KC-10 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ
AMC/A4MMT, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; or call DSN 576-4787. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to
the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A10.1.          AC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.1.1.        Operational fundamentals
                TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-00, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-20
A10.1.1.1.      400 Hertz AC generator system operational fundamentals                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.1.1.2.      Emergency AC power operational fundamentals                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.1.2.        Operational check
                TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-20, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-24
A10.1.2.1.      AC generator system operational checkout                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.1.2.2.      Emergency AC power operational checkout                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.1.3.        Troubleshoot                                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.1.4.        Inspect
                TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-21, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-24,
                TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-50
A10.1.4.1.      Generator control unit/bus control unit                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.1.4.2.      AC power relays (generator, bus tie, aux. power, ground               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
                service and ext. power)
A10.1.4.3.      Remote control circuit breakers                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.1.4.4.      1200 VA static inverter                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.1.4.5.      CSD load controller                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.1.5.        Remove components
                TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-21, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-24,
                TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-50
A10.1.5.1.      Generator control unit/bus control unit                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.1.5.2.      AC power relays (generator, bus tie, aux power, ground                                                                                  -        -        -          -
                service and ext power)
A10.1.5.3.      Remote control circuit breakers                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.1.5.4.      1200 VA static inverter                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.1.5.5.      CSD load controller                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.1.6.        Install components
                TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-21, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-24,
                TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-50
A10.1.6.1.      Generator control unit/bus control unit                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.1.6.2.      AC power relays (generator, bus tie, aux power, ground                                                                                  -        -        -          -
                service and ext power)
A10.1.6.3.      Remote control circuit breakers                                                                                                         -        -        -          -


                                                                                    157
                                                                                                                                                                Attachment 10
                                                    KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                       Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                           5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.1.6.4.     1200 VA static inverter                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.1.6.5.     CSD load controller                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.1.7.       Bench check
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-10
A10.1.7.1.     Adjust Constant Speed Drive (CSD) basic speed                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.2.         DC POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.2.1.       Operational fundamentals
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-30
A10.2.1.1.     DC power cross tie operational fundamentals                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.2.2.       Operational check
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-30
A10.2.2.1.     Aircraft battery charging system operational checkout   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.2.2.2.     DC power cross tie operational checkout                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.2.3.       Troubleshoot
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-TAFI
A10.2.3.1.     Aircraft battery charging system troubleshooting                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.2.4.       Inspect
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-31
A10.2.4.1.     Transformer rectifier unit                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.2.4.2.     Charger                                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.2.5.       Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-31
A10.2.5.1.     Transformer rectifier unit                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.2.5.2.     Charger                                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.2.5.3.     Aircraft batteries                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.2.6.       Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-24-31
A10.2.6.1.     Transformer rectifier unit                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.2.6.2.     Charger                                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.2.6.3.     Aircraft batteries                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.2.7.       Bench check                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.3.         EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.3.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.3.2.       Operational check                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.3.3.       Troubleshoot                                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.3.4.       Inspect System Components                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.3.5.       Remove components                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.3.6.       Repair components                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.3.7.       Install components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -


                                                                               158
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 10
                                                   KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.4.         LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-51, Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.4.1.       Operational fundamentals
A10.4.1.1.     Emergency lighting operational fundamentals                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.4.2.       Operational check
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-51
A10.4.2.1.     Emergency lighting operational checkout             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.4.3.       Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.4.4.       Inspect
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-45, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-47,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-49, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-233-51
A10.4.4.1.     Solid state dimmer                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A10.4.4.2.     Anti collision light power supply                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.4.4.3.     High intensity light controller                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.4.4.4.     Emergency lights battery power supply               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.4.5.       Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-45,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-47, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-49,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-233-51
A10.4.5.1.     Solid state dimmer                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A10.4.5.2.     Anti collision light power supply                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.4.5.3.     High intensity light controller                                                                                                 -        -        -          -

A10.4.5.4.     Emergency lights battery power supply                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.4.5.5.     Light bulbs                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.4.6.       Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.4.7.       Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-45,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-47, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-49,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-233-51
A10.4.7.1.     Solid state dimmer                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A10.4.7.2.     Anti collision light power supply                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.4.7.3.     High intensity light controller                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.4.7.4.     Emergency lights battery power supply                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.4.7.5.     Light bulbs                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.4.8.       Operate lighting systems                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33
A10.5.         LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.5.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.5.2.       Operational check
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-32-61
A10.5.2.1.     Perform BITE check of proximity electronics unit                                                                                -        -        -          -


                                                                           159
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 10
                                                     KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                          Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                  A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                              5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.5.3.       Troubleshoot Landing gear Systems                                    *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.5.4.       Inspect Landing Gear Systems                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.5.5.       Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-32-61
A10.5.5.1.     Landing gear position and warning proximity electronics                                                                                -        -        -          -
               unit
A10.5.5.2.     Landing gear position indicator                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.5.5.3.     Proximity sensors/position switches                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.5.6.       Install components
               TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-32-61
A10.5.6.1.     Landing gear position warning proximity electronics unit                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.5.6.2.     Landing gear position indicator                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.5.6.3.     Proximity sensors/position switches                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.6.         ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.6.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.6.2.       Operational check
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-32-45
A10.6.2.1.     Perform BITE test of anti-skid control box                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.6.3.       Troubleshoot                                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.6.4.       Inspect
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-32-45, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-232-45
A10.6.4.1.     Anti-skid control box                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.6.4.2.     Anti-skid wheel speed transducer                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.6.5.       Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-32-45, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-232-45
A10.6.5.1.     Anti-skid control box                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.6.5.2.     Anti-skid wheel speed transducer                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.6.6.       Repair components                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.6.7.       Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-32-45, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-232-45
A10.6.7.1.     Anti-skid control box                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.6.7.2.     Anti-skid wheel speed transducer                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.7.         PRIMARY AND SECONDARY FLIGHT
               CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.7.1.       Operational fundamentals
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-27-60,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-27-60-TAFI, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-27-63
A10.7.1.1.     Auto-spoiler system operational fundamentals                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.7.2.       Auto-spoiler system operational checkout                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.7.3.       Troubleshoot Auto-spoiler system                                                                                                       -        -        -          -


                                                                                  160
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 10
                                                    KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.7.4.       Inspect
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-27-63
A10.7.4.1.     Auto-spoiler control box                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.7.4.2.     Spoiler electric actuator                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.7.5.       Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-27-63
A10.7.5.1.     Auto-spoiler control box                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.7.6.       Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-27-63
A10.7.6.1.     Auto-spoiler control box                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.8.         OVERHEAT/FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-26, Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.8.1        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.8.2.       Operational check                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.8.3.       Troubleshoot                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.9.4.       Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.8.5.       Remove components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.8.6.       Repair components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.8.7.       Install components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.8.8.       Operate smoke detection system                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.8.9.       Operate fire detection system (A and B loops)                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.9.         FIRE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.9.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.9.2.       Operational check                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.9.3.       Troubleshoot                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.9.4.       Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.9.5.       Remove components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.9.6.       Repair components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.9.7.       Install components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.10.        MASTER CAUTION/WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.10.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.10.2.      Operational check                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.10.3.      Troubleshoot                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.10.4.      Inspect
               TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-32-61, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-15
A10.10.4.1.    Master warning and caution controller                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.10.4.2.    Aux warning and caution controller                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.10.4.3.    Pilot/co-pilot overheat annunciator panel                                                                                    -        -        -          -

                                                                        161
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 10
                                                       KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                         Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                           5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.10.4.4.    Landing gear position and warning proximity electronics                                                                             -        -        -          -
               unit
A10.10.5.      Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-15
A10.10.5.1.    Master warning and caution controller                                                                                               -        -        -          -

A10.10.5.2.    Aux warning and caution controller                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.10.5.3.    Pilot/co-pilot overheat annunciator panel                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.10.6.      Repair components                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.10.7.      Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-33-15
A10.10.7.1.    Master warning and caution controller                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.10.7.2.    Aux warning and caution controller                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.10.7.3.    Pilot/co-pilot overheat annunciator panel                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.10.8.      Operate warning and indicator lights                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.11.        DOOR CONTROL AND WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-52, Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.11.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.11.2.      Operational check                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.11.3.      Troubleshoot                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.11.4.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.11.5.      Remove components                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.11.6.      Repair components                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.11.7.      Install components                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.11.8.      Operate passenger doors                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.11.9.      Operate cargo door                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.11.10.     Raise/lower to/from maintenance position air refueling                                                                              -        -        -          -
               operators door
A10.12.        FUEL WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.12.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.12.2.      Operational check                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.12.3.      Troubleshoot                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.12.4.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.12.5.      Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-110-28
A10.12.5.1.    Flight engineer’s fuel panel switches                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.12.6.      Repair components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-110-28
A10.12.6.1.    Flight engineer’s fuel panel switches                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.12.7.      Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-110-28

                                                                               162
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 10
                                                       KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.12.7.1.    Flight engineer’s fuel panel switches                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.13.        START AND IGNITION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.13.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.13.2.      Operational check                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.13.3.      Troubleshoot                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.13.4.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.13.5.      Remove components                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.13.6.      Repair components                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.13.7.      Install components                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.14.        NESA ANTI-ICING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.14.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.14.2.      Operational check                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.14.3.      Troubleshoot                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.14.4.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.14.5.      Remove components                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.14.6.      Install components                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.15.        BLEED AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.15.1.      Operational fundamentals
               TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-36-23,
A10.15.1.1.    Manifold failure detection operational fundamentals                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.15.1.2.    Manifold isolation operational fundamentals                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.15.2.      Operational check
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-00, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-TAFI,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-23
A10.15.2.1.    Perform BITE test of pneumatic system                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.2.2.    Operate AV-102 Pneumatic System tester with engines                                                                               -        -        -          -
               operating
A10.15.2.3.    Operate VTM-111 Pneumatic System tester               *
A10.15.2.4.    Manifold failure detection system operational         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.3.      Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.      Inspect
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-23, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-11,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-236-12, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-13,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-15, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-23,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-27, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-236-23
A10.15.4.1.    Pneumatic system controller                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.2.    Pressure regulator valve                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.3.    High pressure bleed valve                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.4.    Fan air valve                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -

                                                                             163
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 10
                                                      KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.15.4.5.    Over pressure valve                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.6.    Pre-cooler assembly                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.7.    Regulated pressure sensor                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.8.    High stage temperature sensor                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.9.    Manifold failure detector controller                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.10.   Manifold fail press to test switch                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.11.   Manifold isolation valves                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.12.   Manifold fail pressure switch                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.13.   Manifold fail thermal switch                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.15.4.14.   Manifold failure detector loop elements                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.      Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-23, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-11,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-236-12, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-13,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-15, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-23,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-27, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-236-23
A10.15.5.1.    Pneumatic system controller                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.2.    Pressure regulator valve                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.3.    High pressure bleed valve                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.4.    Fan air valve                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.5.    Over pressure valve                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.6.    Pre-cooler assembly                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.7.    Regulated pressure sensor                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.8.    High stage temperature sensor                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.9.    Manifold failure detector controller                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.10.   Manifold fail press to test switch                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.11.   Manifold isolation valves                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.12.   Manifold fail pressure switch                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.13.   Manifold fail thermal switch                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.15.5.14.   Manifold failure detector loop elements                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.      Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-23, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-11,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-236-12, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-13,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-15, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-23,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36-27, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-236-23
A10.15.6.1.    Pneumatic system controller                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.2.    Pressure regulator valve                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.3.    High pressure bleed valve                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.4.    Fan air valve                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.5.    Over pressure valve                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.6.    Pre-cooler assembly                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.7.    Regulated pressure sensor                                                                                                    -        -        -          -


                                                                        164
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 10
                                                      KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                       Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                           5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.15.6.8.    High stage temperature sensor                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.9.    Manifold failure detector controller                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.10    Manifold fail press to test switch                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.11.   Manifold isolation valves                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.12.   Manifold fail pressure switch                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.13.   Manifold fail thermal switch                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.15.6.14.   Manifold failure detector loop elements                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.15.7.      Operate bleed air system                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.16.        AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.16.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.16.2.      Operational check
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-21, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-221-50,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-60
A10.16.2.1.    Pack condition indication system operational checkout                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.16.2.2.    Trim air system operational checkout                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.16.2.3.    Perform BITE test of air conditioning system            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.16.3.      Troubleshoot                                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.      Inspect
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-26, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-28,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-28, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-51,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-53, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-221-62, TO 1C-
               10(K)A-2-221-62, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-60,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-110-21, TO 1-1A-14
A10.16.4.1.    Trim air valve                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.2.    APU and pack demand temperature controller                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.3.    Zone temperature controller                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.4.    Pack temperature controller                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.5.    Zone and duct temperature sensors                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.6.    Ram air plenum                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.7.    Pack heat exchanger                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.8.    Rate of flow control valve                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.9.    Control valve                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.10.   Turbine by-pass valve                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.11.   Turbine by-pass valve/pack inlet and exhaust door                                                                                   -        -        -          -
               actuator
A10.16.4.12.   Anti-ice valve                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.13.   Pack overheat thermostat                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.14.   Equipment Cooling                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A10.16.4.15.   Center Accessory Compartment (CAC) fan                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.16.   CAC flow detector                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -


                                                                               165
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 10
                                                    KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.16.4.17.   Radio rack fan                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.18.   Radio rack fan flow detector                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.19.   Inertial navigation (1NU) fan                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.20.   (INU) fan start capacitor                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.21.   (INU) fan flow detector                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.22.   Center instrument panel fan                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.16.4.23.   Center instrument panel fan filter                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.      Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-26, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-28,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-28, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-51,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-53, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-221-62, TO 1C-
               10(K)A-2-221-62, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-60,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-110-21, TO 1-1A-14
A10.16.5.1.    Trim air valve                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.2.    APU and pack demand temperature controller                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.3.    Zone temperature controller                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.4.    Pack temperature controller                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.5.    Zone and duct temperature sensors                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.6.    Ram air plenum                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.7.    Pack heat exchanger                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.8.    Rate of flow control valve                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.9.    Control valve                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.10.   Turbine by-pass valve                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.11.   Turbine by-pass valve/pack inlet and exhaust door                                                                             -        -        -          -
               actuator
A10.16.5.12.   Anti-ice valve                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.13.   Pack overheat thermostat                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.14.   Equipment Cooling                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A10.16.5.15.   Center Accessory Compartment (CAC) fan                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.16.   CAC flow detector                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.17.   Radio rack fan                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.18.   Radio rack fan flow detector                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.19.   Inertial navigation (1NU) fan                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.20.    (INU) fan start capacitor                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.21.   (INU) fan flow detector                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.16.5.22.   Center instrument panel fan                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.      Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-26, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-28,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-28, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-51,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-53, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-221-62, TO 1C-
               10(K)A-2-221-62, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-60,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-110-21, TO 1-1A-14


                                                                         166
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 10
                                                    KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.16.6.1.    Trim air valve                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.2.    APU and pack demand temperature controller                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.3.    Zone temperature controller                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.4.    Pack temperature controller                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.5.    Zone and duct temperature sensors                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.6.    Ram air plenum                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.7.    Pack heat exchanger                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.8.    Rate of flow control valve                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.9.    Control valve                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.10.   Turbine by-pass valve                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.11.   Turbine by-pass valve/pack inlet and exhaust door                                                                               -        -        -          -
               actuator
A10.16.6.12.   Anti-ice valve                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.13.   Pack overheat thermostat                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.14.   Equipment Cooling                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A10.16.6.15.   Center Accessory Compartment (CAC) fan                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.16.   CAC flow detector                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.17.   Radio rack fan                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.18.   Radio rack fan flow detector                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.19.   Inertial navigation unit (INU) fan                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.20.   (INU) fan start capacitor                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.21.   (INU) fan flow detector                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.16.6.22.   Center instrument panel fan                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.17.        PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.17.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.17.2.      Operational check
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-21-31
A10.17.2.1.    Perform BITE test of cabin pressurization system    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.17.3.      Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.17.4.      Inspect                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-221-31
A10.17.4.1.    Cabin pressure controller                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.17.4.2.    Cabin altitude rate selector                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.17.4.3.    Cabin pressure indicator                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.17.4.4.    Thrust recovery valve actuator                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.17.5.      Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-221-31
A10.17.5.1.    Cabin pressure controller                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.17.5.2.    Cabin altitude rate selector                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -

                                                                           167
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 10
                                                    KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.17.5.3.    Cabin pressure indicator                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.17.5.4.    Thrust recovery valve actuator                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.17.6.      Repair components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.17.7.      Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-221-31
A10.17.7.1.    Cabin pressure controller                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.17.7.2.    Cabin altitude rate selector                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.17.7.3.    Cabin pressure indicator                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.17.7.4.    Thrust recovery valve actuator                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.18.        LIQUID COOLANT SYSTEM
A10.18.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.18.2.      Operational check                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.18.3.      Troubleshoot System                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.18.4.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.18.5.      Remove components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.18.6.      Repair components                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.18.7.      Install components                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.18.8.      Bench check                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.19.        OXYGEN SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-35-00, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-35-12
A10.19.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.19.2.      Operational check of oxygen system pressure      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.19.3.      Troubleshoot System                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.19.4.      Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.19.5.      Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-35-12, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-35-14
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-35-30
A10.19.5.1.    Oxygen regulator                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.19.5.2.    Oxygen cylinder regulator/re-fill valve                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.19.5.3.    Oxygen cylinders                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.19.5.4.    Quantity indicator transducer                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.19.6.      Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-35-12, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-35-14
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-35-30
A10.19.6.1.    Oxygen regulator                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.19.6.2.    Oxygen cylinder regulator/re-fill valve                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A10.19.6.3.    Oxygen cylinders                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.19.6.4.    Quantity indicator transducer                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.19.7.      Operate oxygen system                                                                                                        -        -        -          -




                                                                        168
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 10
                                                 KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5           7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.20.        AERIAL REFUELING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.20.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.20.2.      Operational check                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.20.3.      Troubleshoot System components                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.20.4.      Inspect System components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.20.5.      Remove components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.20.6.      Install components                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A10.20.7.      Boom
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-28 Part III and,
               1C-10(K)A-2-28CL-1
A10.20.7.1.    Boom Operation: raise lower                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.21.        MISCELLANEOUS SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.21.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A10.21.2.      Operational check                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.21.3.      Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A10.21.4.      Inspect
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-30, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-56
A10.21.4.1.    Windows/windshield                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A10.21.4.2.    Rain removal system                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.21.5.      Remove components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-21, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-30,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-53-01, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-03,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-05, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-06,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-07, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-08,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-09
A10.21.5.1.    IAU exit sign                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.21.5.2.    Rain repellant bottle                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.21.5.3.    Aircrew bunks                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.21.5.4.    Increased Accommodation Unit (IAU)                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A10.21.5.5.    IAU passenger oxygen                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.21.5.6.    IAU seat pallets                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.21.5.7.    Cargo Barrier Net                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.21.5.8.    IAU "Z" lav/storage cabinet                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.21.5.9.    Environmental Curtain                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A10.21.6.      Repair components                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.21.7.      Install components
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-21, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-30,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-53-01, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-03,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-05, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-06,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-07, TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-08,
               TO 1C-10(K)A-2-25-53-09
A10.21.7.1.    IAU exit sign                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -

                                                                         169
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 10
                                                     KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                         Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                           5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A10.21.7.2.    Rain repellant bottle                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.21.7.3.    Aircrew bunks                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A10.21.7.4.    Increased Accommodation Unit (IAU)                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A10.21.7.5.    IAU passenger oxygen                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A10.21.7.6.    IAU seat pallets                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A10.21.7.7.    Cargo Barrier Net                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A10.21.7.8.    IAU "Z" lav/storage cabinet                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A10.21.7.9.    Environmental Curtain                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.21.8.      Operate crew member electrically operated/manual seats                                                                              -        -        -          -
A10.21.9.      Operate aerial refueling operators station manual seats                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.21.10.     Operate hydraulic system using auxiliary and reversible                                                                             -        -        -          -
               pumps
A10.22.        COMMON MAINTENANCE PRACTICES
               TR: TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-36, Applicable aircraft TOs
A10.22.1.      Inspect/operate portable external electrical power unit                                                                             -        -        -          -
A10.22.2.      Inspect/use ground maintenance stands                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A10.22.3.      Dropped Object Prevention Program (DOPP)                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A10.22.4.      Apply/disconnect external electrical power unit                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A10.22.5.      Connect/Disconnect External Pneumatics                                                                                              -        -        -          -




                                                                               170
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 10
                                                      KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                           2. Core          3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                           Tasks                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                  A         B         C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                              5         7    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                             Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 11
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 11 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain KC-135 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ AMC/A4MMT,
402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; or call DSN 576-4787. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training
Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A11.1.          METERS AND TESTERS
                TR: Applicable 33 series TOs
A11.1.1.        Use transformer-rectifier load bank                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A11.2.          AC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.2.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A11.2.2.        Operational check System                                      *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.2.3.        Troubleshoot System                                                     *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.2.4.        Inspect System Components                                               *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.2.5.        Operate Load Bank                                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A11.2.6.        Remove/Install components
A11.2.6.1.      Generator breaker                                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A11.2.6.2.      IDG                                                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A11.2.6.3.      Bus Power Control Unit (BPCU)                                 *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.2.6.4.      Bus-Tie Circuit Breaker                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A11.2.6.5.      GCU                                                           *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.2.6.6.      Current Transformer                                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A11.2.6.7.      S/V box                                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A11.2.6.8.      Copilot instrument generator                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A11.2.6.9.      Other system components                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A11.3.          DC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A11.3.2.        Operational check                                             *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.3.3.        Troubleshoot System                                                     *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.3.4.        Inspect System Components                                               *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.3.5.        Remove/Install components
A11.3.5.1.      Transformer rectifier                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.3.5.2.      Other system components                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A11.4.          EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A11.4.2.        Operational Check System                                      *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.4.3.        Troubleshoot System                                                     *                                                            -        -         -          -



                                                                                  171
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 11
                                                      KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A         B         C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                     5         7    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A11.4.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.4.5.       Remove/Install components                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A11.5.         LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.5.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.5.2.       Operational check
A11.5.2.1.     External                                              *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.5.2.2.     Internal                                              *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.5.3.       Troubleshoot                                          *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.5.4.       Inspect                                                         *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.5.5.       Remove/Install components
A11.5.5.1.     Pilot director lights                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A11.5.5.2.     Boom/drogue lights                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A11.5.5.3.     Light Assembly                                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A11.5.5.4.     Power Supply                                                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A11.5.5.5.     Dimmer Control Unit                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A11.5.5.6.     Flasher Assembly                                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A11.5.5.7.     Other system components
A11.5.6.       Repair components                                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.5.7.       Bench check components                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A11.6.         LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.6.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.6.2.       Operational check
A11.6.2.1.     Landing Gear System                                  */R                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.6.2.2.     Safety switch                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.6.2.3.     Truck leveling switch                                */R                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.6.2.4.     Position A (Gear swing supervisor)                            */R                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.6.2.5      Position B (Gear handle operator)                    */R
A11.6.3.       Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.6.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.6.5.       Lever lock solenoid circuit checkout                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A11.6.6.       Remove/Install components
A11.6.6.1.     Safety switch                                        */R                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.6.6.2.     Lever lock solenoid                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A11.6.6.3.     Truck leveling switch                                */R
A11.7.         ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.7.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.7.2.       Operational check                                     *                                                                      -        -         -          -


                                                                         172
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 11
                                                   KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A         B         C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                     5         7    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A11.7.3.       Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.7.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.7.5.       Remove/Install components
A11.7.5.1.     Anti-skid detector                                    *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.7.5.2.     Anti-skid Shield                                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A11.7.5.3.     Other system components                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.8.         NOSE GEAR STEERING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.8.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.8.2.       Operational check                                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.8.3.       Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.8.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.8.5.       Remove/Install Components
A11.8.5.1      Linear Actuator                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A11.8.5.2.     Other components                                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A11.9.         PRIMARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.9.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.9.2.       Operational Check System                              *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.9.3.       Troubleshoot System                                             *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.9.4.       Inspect System Components                                       *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.9.5.       Remove/Install Stab trim control switch              */R                                                                     -         -         -        -
A11.10.        SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.10.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.10.2.      Operational check
A11.10.2.1.    Flaps                                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A11.10.2.2.    Other system components                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.10.3.      Troubleshoot
A11.10.3.1.    Flaps                                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A11.10.3.2.    Other System components                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.10.4.      Inspect System components                                       *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.10.5.      Remove/Install components                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A11.11.        OVERHEAT/FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.11.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.11.2.      Operational check System                              *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.11.3.      Troubleshoot System                                             *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.11.4.      Inspect System Components                                       *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.11.5.      Remove/Install components




                                                                         173
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 11
                                                    KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A         B         C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                     5         7    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A11.11.5.1.    Fire Detection Control Unit                           *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.11.5.2.    Fire Handle                                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A11.11.5.3.    Sensing Elements                                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A11.11.5.4.    Other System Components                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.11.6.      Bench check components                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A11.12.        FIRE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM
A11.12.1.      Operational fundamentals
A11.12.1.1.    Engine System                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.12.1.2.    APU System                                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A11.12.2.      Operational/continuity check
A11.12.2.1.    Engine System                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.12.2.2.    APU System                                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A11.12.2.3.    Squib/cartridge electrical circuit                    *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.12.3.      Troubleshoot
A11.12.3.1.     Engine System                                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A11.12.3.2.     APU System                                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A11.12.3.3.    Other fire extinguishing system components
A11.12.4.      Inspect Fire extinguishing system
A11.12.4.1.    Engine System                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.12.4.2.    APU System                                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A11.12.4.3.    Squib/Cartridge                                                 *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.12.4.4.    Other fire extinguishing system components                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A11.12.5.      Remove/Install components
A11.12.5.1.    Engine fire bottle                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A11.12.5.2.    APU fire bottle                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A11.12.5.3.    Squib/cartridge                                       *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.12.5.4.    Other fire extinguishing system components                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A11.13.        TAKEOFF WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component Tos
A11.13.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.13.2.      Operational Check System                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.13.3.      Troubleshoot System                                             *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.13.4.      Inspect System Components                                       *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.13.5.      Remove/Install components                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A11.14.        FUEL WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component Tos
A11.14.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.14.2.      Operational check System                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.14.3.      Boost pump current check                                                                                                     -        -         -          -



                                                                         174
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 11
                                                  KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                        Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A         B         C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                          5         7    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                         Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A11.14.4.      Troubleshoot System                                                  *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.14.5.      Inspect System Components                                            *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.14.6.      Remove/Install components
A11.14.7.       Bench check components                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A11.15.        CARGO DOOR CONTROL AND WARNING
               SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component Tos
A11.15.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A11.15.2.      Operational check System                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A11.15.3.      Troubleshoot System                                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A11.15.4.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A11.15.5.      Remove/Install components                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A11.16.        START AND IGNITION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.16.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A11.16.2.      Troubleshoot
A11.16.2.1.    Jet engine                                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A11.16.2.2.    Auxiliary power unit                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A11.16.3.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A11.16.4.      Remove/Install components                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A11.17.        NESA ANTI-ICING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.17.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A11.17.2.      Operational Check System (includes resistance   check)     *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.17.3.      Troubleshoot System                                                  *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.17.4.      Inspect System Components                                            *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.17.5.      Remove/Install components
A11.17.5.1.    Transformer                                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A11.17.5.2.    Controller                                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A11.17.5.3.    Thermal Switch                                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A11.17.5.4.     Other System Components                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A11.17.6.      Bench check components                                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.18.        BLEED AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.18.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A11.18.2.      Operational check System                                   *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.18.3.      Perform leakage checks                                     *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.18.4.      Troubleshoot System                                                  *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.18.5.      Inspect System Components                                            *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.18.6.      Remove/Install components
A11.18.6.1.    Bleed air duct                                             *                                                                      -        -         -          -



                                                                              175
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 11
                                                 KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A         B         C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                     5         7    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A11.18.6.2.    Bleed air shutoff valve                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.18.6.3.    Engine Pre-cooler                                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.18.6.4.    Check Valves                                          *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.18.6.5.    Cross over valve                                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A11.18.6.6.    Pressure Regulator                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A11.18.6.7.    Filters                                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.18.6.8.    Other System Components                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.18.7.       Repair components                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A11.18.8.      Hydrostatic Check Ducts                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.18.9.      Bench check components                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A11.19.        AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs
A11.19.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.19.2.      Operational Check System                              *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.19.3.      Perform System Leakage checks                         *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.19.4.      Service ACM                                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A11.19.5.      Troubleshoot System                                             *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.19.6.      Inspect System Components                                       *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.      Remove/Install components
A11.19.7.1.    Water separator coalescer                             *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.2.    Water separator                                       *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.3.    Air Flow control valve                                *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.4.    Air conditioning shut-off valve
A11.19.7.5.    Auxiliary heat valve                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.6.    Air cycle machine                                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.7.    Primary heat exchanger                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.8.     Secondary heat exchanger                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.9.    Hot Air Bypass Valve                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.10.   Temp Sensor                                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.11.   35 Degree Control Valve                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.12.   ACM pressure temperature limiting valve                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.13.   Ejector Valve                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.14.   Ram Air Valve                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.15.   Filters                                               *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.19.7.16.   Other System Components                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.19.8.      Repair Components                                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.19.9.      Bench check components                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A11.20.        PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs, 8 series component TOs


                                                                         176
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 11
                                                    KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    A         B         C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                    3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                5         7    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                               Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A11.20.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.20.2.      Pressurization Safety                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A11.20.3.      Operational Check System                         *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.20.4.      Troubleshoot System                                      */R                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.20.5.      Inspect System Components                                  *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.20.6.      Remove/Install components
A11.20.6.1.    Outflow valve                                   */R                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.20.6.2.    Pneumatic relay                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A11.20.6.3.    Auto pressure controller                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.20.6.4.    Filters                                                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A11.20.6.5.    Other system components                                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A11.20.7.      Perform Pressure Decay Check                    */R                                                                     -        -         -          -
A11.21.        OXYGEN SYSTEM
               TR: AFOSH standards, TOs 15X1-1, 42B5-1-2,
               42E1-1-1, Applicable KC-135 TOs
A11.21.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.21.2.      Operational check System                         *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.21.3.      Troubleshoot System                                        *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.21.4.      Inspect System Components                                  *                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.21.5.      Purge system                                     *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.21.6.      Remove/Install components
A11.21.6.1.    Oxygen regulator                                 *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.21.6.2.    GOX Bottle                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A11.21.6.3.    Filler Valve                                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A11.21.6.4.    Shutoff Valve                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A11.21.6.5.    Distribution Tubes/Hoses                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.21.6.6.    Indicator                                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A11.21.6.7.    GOX Rack Assembly                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A11.21.7.      Perform System leak check                        *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.21.8.      Procedures for cleaning components               *                                                                      -        -         -          -
A11.22.         ENGINE ANTI-ICE SYSTEM
A11.22.1.      Operational Check System                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A11.22.2.      Troubleshooting System                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A11.22.3.      Remove/Install Components
A11.22.3.1.    Anti-Ice Valve                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A11.22.3.2.    Anti-Ice Indication Switch                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A11.22.3.3.    Other System Components                                                                                                 -        -         -          -




                                                                    177
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 11
     KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                 178
                                     Attachment 11
                                                       HH-60 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                             Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 12
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, personnel assigned to maintain H-60 aircraft will perform the tasks and knowledge in attachment 12.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772
 A12.1.        AC ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-4, 1H-60(H) G-2-9
A12.1.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.1.2.        Perform operational check of system                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.1.3.        Troubleshoot                                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.1.4.        Inspect system components                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.1.5.        Remove
A12.1.5.1.      Main generators                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A12.1.5.2.      Left hand relay panel                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A12.1.5.3.      Right hand relay panel                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A12.1.5.4.      Number 3 relay panel                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.1.5.5.      Junctions boxes                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A12.1.5.6.      Generator control units                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A12.1.6.        Install
A12.1.6.1.      Main generators                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A12.1.6.2.      Left hand relay panel                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A12.1.6.3.      Right hand relay panel                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A12.1.6.4.      Number 3 relay panel                                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.1.6.5.      Junctions boxes                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A12.1.6.6.      Generator control units                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A12.2.          DC ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS
                TR:1H-60(H)G-2-4, 1H-60(H)G-2-5, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.2.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.2.2.        Perform operational check of system                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.2.3.        Troubleshoot                                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.2.4.        Inspect system components                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.2.5.        Remove
A12.2.5.1.      Battery                                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.2.5.2.      Battery indicator panel                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A12.2.5.3.      Current limiter                                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A12.2.5.4.      Converter                                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A12.2.6.        Install
A12.2.6.1.      Battery                                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -



                                                                                     179
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 12
                                                      HH-60 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                         Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A12.2.6.2.     Battery indicator panel                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A12.2.6.3.     Current limiter                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A12.2.6.4.     Converter                                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A12.3.         EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
               TR:1H-60 (H)-G-2-4, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.3.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A12.3.2.       Perform operational check of system                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.3.3.       Troubleshoot                                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.3.4.       Inspect system components                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.3.5.       Remove
A12.3.5.1.     External power receptacle                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A12.3.5.2.     External power monitor                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A12.3.5.3.     Line contactor                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A12.3.6.       Install
A12.3.6.1.     External power receptacle                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A12.3.6.2.     External power monitor                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A12.3.6.3.     Line contactor                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A12.4.         AUXILIARY POWER UNIT (APU) ELECTRICAL
               SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-4, 1H-60(M) G-2-5, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.4.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A12.4.2.       Perform operational check of system                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A12.4.3.       Troubleshoot                                                        *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.4.4.       Inspect                                                             *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.4.5.       Remove
A12.4.5.1.     Electronic sequencing unit                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A12.4.5.2.     Current transformer                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A12.4.5.3.     APU generator control unit                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A12.4.5.4.     APU generator                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A12.4.6.       Install
A12.4.6.1.     Electronic sequencing unit                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A12.4.6.2.     Current transformer                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A12.4.6.3.     APU generator control unit                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A12.4.6.4.     APU generator                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A12.5.         INTERNAL/EXTERNAL LIGHTING
               TR: 1H-60 (H) G-2-4, 1H-60(H)G-2-9

A12.5.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A12.5.2.       Perform operational check of internal lighting   system   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A12.5.3.       Perform operational check of external lighting   system   *                                                                          -         -        -          -



                                                                                 180
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 12
                                                      HH-60 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
 A12.5.4.      Troubleshoot                                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A12.5.5.       Inspect                                                    *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.       Remove
A12.5.6.1.     Dimmer box                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.2.     Dimming control unit power supply                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.3.     Transformer box                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.4.     Search light assembly                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.5.      Overhead lighted panels                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.6.     Landing light assembly                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.7.     Hoist light assembly                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.8.     Formation lights                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.9.     Anti-collision/strobe light assembly                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.10.    Anti-collision/strobe light power supply         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.11.    IR light assembly                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.12.    Position light assembly                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.13.    Map light assembly                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.6.14.    Cabin dome light assembly                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.       Install
A12.5.7.1.     Dimmer box                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.2.     Dimming control unit power supply                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.3.     Transformer box                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.4.     Search light assembly                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.5.     Overhead lighted panels                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.6.     Landing light assembly                           *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.7.     Hoist light assembly                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.8.     Formation lights                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.9.     Anti-collision/strobe light assembly                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.10.    Anti-collision/strobe light power supply         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.11.    IR light assembly                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.12.    Position light assembly                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.13.    Map light assembly                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.5.7.14.    Cabin dome light assembly                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A12.6.         CAUTION ADVISORY/WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-4, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.6.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.6.2.       Perform operational check of system              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A12.6.3.       Troubleshoot                                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A12.6.4.       Inspect system components                                  *                                                                -         -        -          -



                                                                        181
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 12
                                                     HH-60 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
 A12.6.5.      Remove
A12.6.5.1.     Caution Advisory panel                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.6.5.2.     Master Warning panel                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A12.6.5.3.     Audible warning unit                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A12.6.5.4.     Night Vision Goggles (NVG) dimming control                                                                                  -        -        -          -
               rheostat
A12.6.6.       Install
A12.6.6.1.     Caution Advisory panel                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.6.6.2.     Master Warning panel                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A12.6.6.3.     Audible warning unit                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A12.6.6.4.     NVG dimming control rheostat                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A12.7.         WINDSHIELD WIPER SYSTEM
               TR:1H-60(H)G-2-5, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.7.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A12.7.2.       Perform operational check of system             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.7.3.       Troubleshoot                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.7.4.       Inspect system components                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.7.5.       Remove wiper motor/transmission                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A12.7.6.       Install wiper motor/transmission                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A12.8.         WINDSHIELD ANTI-ICE SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-5, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.8.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A12.8.2.       Perform operational check of system             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.8.3.       Troubleshoot                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.8.4.       Inspect system components                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.8.5.       Remove control unit                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A12.8.6.       Install control unit                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A12.9.         HEAT AND VENTILATION SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-5, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.9.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A12.9.2.       Perform operational check of system             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.9.3.       Troubleshoot                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.9.4.       Inspect system components                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.9.5.       Remove
A12.9.5.1.     Mixing valve                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A12.9.5.2.     Blower unit                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.9.5.3.     Ducts                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A12.9.6.       Install
A12.9.6.1.     Mixing valve                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A12.9.6.2.     Blower unit                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -



                                                                       182
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 12
                                                     HH-60 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A12.9.6.3.     Ducts                                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A12.10.        ENGINE FIRE EXTINGUISHING/DETECTION
               SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-3, 1H-60(H)G-2-5, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.10.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A12.10.2.      Perform operational check of system               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.10.3.      Troubleshoot                                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.10.4.      Inspect system components                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.10.5.      Remove
A12.10.5.1.    Control amplifier                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A12.10.5.2.    Detectors                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.10.5.3.    Fire extinguisher bottles                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.10.5.4.    Fire extinguisher squibs                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.10.5.5.    APU T-handle                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A12.10.6.      Install
A12.10.6.1.    Control amplifier                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A12.10.6.2.    Detectors                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.10.6.3.    Fire extinguisher bottles                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.10.6.4.    Fire extinguisher squibs                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.10.6.5.    APU T-handle                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A12.11.        ENGINE START/IGNITION SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-3, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.11.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A12.11.2.      Perform operational check of system               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.11.3.      Troubleshoot                                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.11.4.      Inspect system components                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.11.5.      Remove
A12.11.5.1.    Component control quadrant switches                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.11.5.2.    Engine start micro-switches                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A12.11.6.      Install
A12.11.6.1.    Component control quadrant switches                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.11.6.2.    Engine start micro-switches                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A12.11.7.      Adjust
A12.11.7.1.    Component control quadrant switches                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.11.7.2.    Engine start micro-switches                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.12.        FUEL CONTROL/WARNING SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-4, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.12.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A12.12.2.      Perform operational check of system               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A12.12.3.      Troubleshoot                                                *                                                                -         -        -          -



                                                                         183
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 12
                                                      HH-60 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A12.12.4.      Inspect system components                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.12.5.      Remove
A12.12.5.1.    Fuel management panel                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A12.12.5.2.    Fuel boost control panel                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.12.5.3.    Fuel probe harness                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.12.5.4.    Fuel probe actuator                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A12.12.6.      Install
A12.12.6.1.    Fuel management panel                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A12.12.6.2.    Fuel boost control panel                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.12.6.3.    Fuel probe harness                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.12.6.4.    Fuel probe actuator                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A12.13.        CHIP DETECTOR SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-4, 1H-60(H)G-2-9

A12.13.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.13.2.      Perform operational check of system              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.13.3.      Troubleshoot                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.13.4.      Inspect system components                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.13.5.      Remove
A12.13.5.1.    Input and accessory module chip detector                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.13.5.2.    Tail and intermediate gear box chip detector     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.13.5.3.    Main transmission chip detector                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A12.13.6.      Install
A12.13.6.1.    Input and accessory module chip detector                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.13.6.2.    Tail and intermediate gear box chip detector     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.13.6.3.    Main transmission chip detector                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A12.14.        RESCUE HOIST SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60 (H) G-2-6, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.14.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.14.2.      Perform operational check of system              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.14.3.      Adjust hoist limit switches                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.14.4.      Troubleshoot                                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.14.5.      Inspect system components                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.14.6.      Remove
A12.14.6.1.    Control panel (center console)                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A12.14.6.2.    Control panel (overhead in cabin)                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A12.14.6.3.    Consolidated control box (CCB)                                                                                               -         -       -          -
A12.14.6.4.    Rescue hoist squib                               *                                                                           -         -       -          -
A12.14.6.5.   Hoist relay box                                                                                                              -         -        -          -



                                                                        184
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 12
                                                     HH-60 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A12.14.7.      Install
A12.14.7.1.    Control panel (center console)                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A12.14.7.2.    Control panel (overhead in cabin)                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.14.7.3.    Consolidated control box (CCB)                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A12.14.7.4.    Rescue hoist squib                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.14.7.5.    Hoist relay box                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A12.15.        BLADE DE-ICE SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-5, 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.15.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A12.15.2.      Perform operational check of system             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.15.3.      Troubleshoot                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.15.4.      Perform blade burn procedures                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A12.15.5.      Inspect system components                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.15.6.      Remove
A12.15.6.1.    Main rotor de-ice distributor                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.15.6.2.    Icing rate meter                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A12.15.6.3.    Blade de-ice control panel                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A12.15.6.4.    Blade de-ice controller                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.15.6.5.    Blade de-ice test panel                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.15.6.6.    De-ice OAT sensor                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.15.6.7.    Ice detector                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A12.15.6.8.    Tail rotor slip ring assembly                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A12.15.7.      Install
A12.15.7.1.    Main rotor de-ice distributor                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.15.7.2.    Icing rate meter                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A12.15.7.3.    Blade de-ice control panel                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A12.15.7.4.    Blade de-ice controller                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.15.7.5.    Blade de-ice test panel                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A12.15.7.6.    De-ice OAT sensor                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.15.7.7.    Ice detector                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A12.15.7.8.    Tail rotor slip ring assembly                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A12.16.        CARGO HOOK SYSTEM
               TR: 1H-60(H)G-2-9
A12.16.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A12.16.2.      Perform operational check of system             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.16.3.      Troubleshoot system                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.16.4.      Inspect system components                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A12.16.5.      Remove cargo hook squib                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A12.16.6.      Install cargo hook squib                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -


                                                                       185
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 12
     HH-60 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                 186
                                     Attachment 12
                                                         A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                              2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                              Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 13
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 13 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain A-10 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A13.1.          AIRCRAFT FUNDAMENTALS
A13.1.1.        Perform Aircraft safe for Maintenance                         *                                                                         -         -         -          -
A13.2.          COCKPIT PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.2.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.2.2.        Inspect                                                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.2.3.        Troubleshoot                                                            *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.2.4.        Perform System Leak/Operational Check                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.        Remove System Components
A13.2.5.1.      Cabin Pressure Safety Valve                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.2.      Cabin Pressure Regulator Valve                                *                                                                             -         -     -          -
A13.2.5.3.      Anti-G Suit Regulator Valve                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.4.      Anti-G Suit Hose                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.5.       Environmental Control Unit                                   *                                                                             -         -     -          -
A13.2.5.6.      Water Separator                                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.7.      Water Separator Coalescer                                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.8.      ECU Overpressure Switch                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.9.      ECU Pressure Regulator and Shutoff Valve                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.10.      Environmental Control Panel                                  *                                                                             -         -     -          -
A13.2.5.11.     Temperature Control Unit                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.12.     Temperature Control Valve                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.13.     Duct Temperature Sensor                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.14.     Service Air Temperature Switch                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.15.      Canopy Seal Pressure Regulator Valve                         *                                                                             -         -     -          -
A13.2.5.16.     Windshield Wash Fluid Tank                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.17.     Windshield Wash Fluid Level Sight Glass                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.18.     Windshield Wash Pressure Regulator Valve                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.19.     Windshield Wash Shutoff Valve                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.20.     Windshield Wash Air Supply Valve                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.21.     Windshield Wash Air Purge Valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.22.     Windshield Wash Check Valves                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.23.     Windshield Wash/Rain Removal Nozzle Assembly                                                                                             -         -        -          -


                                                                                      187
                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 13
                                                      A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.2.5.24.    Canopy Seal Check Valve                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.25.    ECS Ejector Assembly                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.26.    ECU Duct Overtemperature Switch                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.27.    Cabin Pressure Altimeter                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.2.5.28.    Canopy Seal Pressure Regulator Valve Filter                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.29.    Water Aspirator Assembly                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.30.    Ram Air Shutoff Valve                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.2.5.31.    Ram Air Check Valve                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.       Install System Components
A13.2.6.1.     Cabin Pressure Safety Valve                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.2.     Cabin Pressure Regulator Valve                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.2.6.3.     Anti-G Suit Regulator Valve                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.4.     Anti-G Suit Hose                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.5.     Environmental Control Unit                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.2.6.6.     Water Separator                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.7.     Water Separator Coalescer                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.8.     ECU Overpressure Switch                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.9.     ECU Pressure Regulator and Shutoff Valve                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.10.    Environmental Control Panel                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.2.6.11.    Temperature Control Unit                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.12.    Temperature Control Valve                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.13.    Duct Temperature Sensor                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.14.    Service Air Temperature Switch                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.15.    Canopy Seal Pressure Regulator Valve            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.2.6.16.    Windshield Wash Fluid Tank                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.17.    Windshield Wash Fluid Level Sight Glass                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.18.    Windshield Wash Pressure Regulator Valve                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.19.    Windshield Wash Shutoff Valve                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.20.    Windshield Wash Air Supply Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.21.    Windshield Wash Air Purge Valve                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.22.    Windshield Wash Check Valves                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.23.    Windshield Wash/Rain Removal Nozzle Assembly                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.24.    Canopy Seal Check Valve                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.25.    ECS Ejector Assembly                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.26.    ECU Duct Overtemperature Switch                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.27.    Cabin Pressure Altimeter                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.2.6.28.    Canopy Seal Pressure Regulator Valve Filter                                                                                -         -        -          -

                                                                       188
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 13
                                                       A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.2.6.29.    Water Aspirator Assembly                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.30.    Ram Air Shutoff Valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.2.6.31.    Ram Air Check Valve                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.2.7.       Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.2.7.1.     Environmental Control Unit                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.2.7.2.     Environmental Control Panel                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.3.         BLEED AIR SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.3.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.3.2.       Inspect                                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.3.3.       Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.3.4.       Perform System Leak/Operational Check               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.       Remove System Components
A13.3.5.1.     Engine Bleed Shutoff Valve                          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.2.     Engine Bleed Manifold Assembly (Nacelle)                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.3.     Engine Bleed Line Crossover Tube Assembly                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.4.     Engine Bleed Regulator Shutoff Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.5.     Engine Bleed Line Penta-Manifold Assembly                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.6.     Flow-Limiter Tube Assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.7.     Ejection Shutoff Valve                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.3.5.8.     Precooler Ejector                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.9.     Ram Air Precooler                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.10.    Ducting                                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.3.5.11.    Bleed Air Overpressure Indicator                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.3.5.12.    Precooler By-Pass Tube Assembly                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.13.    Ground Start Hot Air Check Valve and Bellows Assy                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.14.    APU Engine Bleed Duct Assembly                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.15.    APU Hot Air Check Valve                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.16.    Ground Start Transition Duct Assembly                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.17.    Bleed Air Leak Detector Sensing Cable                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.3.5.18.    Bleed Air Leak Detector Control Unit                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.3.6.       Install System Components
A13.3.6.1.     Engine Bleed Shutoff Valve                          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.2.     Engine Bleed Manifold Assembly (Nacelle)                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.3.     Engine Bleed Line Crossover Tube Assembly                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.4.     Engine Bleed Regulator Shutoff Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.5.     Engine Bleed Line Penta-Manifold Assembly                                                                                      -         -        -          -


                                                                           189
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 13
                                                       A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.3.6.6.     Flow-Limiter Tube Assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.7.     Ejection Shutoff Valve                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.8.     Precooler Ejector                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.9.     Ram Air Precooler                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.10.    Ducting                                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.3.6.11.    Bleed Air Overpressure Indicator                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.3.6.12.    Precooler By-Pass Tube Assembly                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.13.    Ground Start Hot Air Check Valve and Bellows Assy                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.14.    APU Engine Bleed Duct Assembly                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.15.    APU Hot Air Check Valve                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.16.    Ground Start Transition Duct Assembly                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.17.    Bleed Air Leak Detector Sensing Cable                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.3.6.18.    Bleed Air Leak Detector Control Unit                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.4.         COMPARTMENT COOLING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.4.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.4.2.       Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.4.3.       Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.4.4.       Perform System Operational Check                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.4.5.       Remove System Components
A13.4.5.1.     Electrical/Avionics Compartment Cooling Blowers     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.4.5.2.     Electrical/Avionics Compartment Cooling Blowers                                                                                -         -        -          -
               Interlock Switches
A13.4.6.       Install System Components
A13.4.6.1.     Electrical/Avionics Compartment Cooling Blowers     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.4.6.2.     Electrical/Avionics Compartment Cooling Blowers                                                                                -         -        -          -
               Interlock Switches
A13.5.         RAIN REMOVAL AND DEFOG SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.5.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.5.2.       Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.5.3.       Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.5.4.       Perform System Operational Check                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.5.5.       Remove System Components
A13.5.5.1.     Rain Removal Regulator and Shutoff Valve                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.5.5.2.     Rain Removal Nozzle                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.5.5.3.     Canopy Defogging Valve                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.5.5.4.     Windshield and Canopy Defog Tube Assembly                                                                                      -         -        -          -

                                                                           190
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 13
                                                    A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.5.6.       Install System Components
A13.5.6.1.     Rain Removal Regulator and Shutoff Valve                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.5.6.2.     Rain Removal Nozzle                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.5.6.3.     Canopy Defogging Valve                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.5.6.4.     Windshield and Canopy Defog Tube Assembly                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.6.         WINDSHIELD DEICER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.6.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.6.2.       Inspect                                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.6.3.       Troubleshoot                                            *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.6.4.       Perform System Operational Check              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.6.5.       Remove System Components
A13.6.5.1.     Windshield Deice Controller                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.6.6.       Install System Components
A13.6.6.1.     Windshield Deice Controller                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.7.         FIRE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.7.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.7.2.       Inspect                                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.7.3.       Troubleshoot                                            *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.7.4.       Perform System Operational Check              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.7.5.       Remove System Components
A13.7.5.1.     Fire Extinguishing Containers                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.7.5.2.     Check Valves                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.7.5.3.     Resistor Assembly                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.7.5.4.     Cartridges (Squibs)                           */R                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.7.5.5.     Fire Pull Handles                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.7.6.       Install System Components
A13.7.6.1.     Fire Extinguishing Containers                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.7.6.2.     Check Valves                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.7.6.3.     Resistor Assembly                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.7.6.4.     Cartridges (Squibs)                           */R                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.7.6.5.     Fire Pull Handles                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.7.7.       Overhaul / Service
A13.7.7.1.     Fire Extinguishing Containers                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.8.         LIQUID OXYGEN SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.8.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                 -         -        -          -

                                                                     191
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 13
                                                   A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                            2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                    3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.8.2.       Inspect                                                *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.8.3.       Troubleshoot                                           *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.8.4.       Perform System Leak/Operational Check        *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.8.5.       Remove System Components
A13.8.5.1.     Diluter Demand Regulator                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.8.5.2.     Liquid Oxygen Converter                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.8.5.3.     Heat Exchanger Assembly                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.8.5.4.     LOX Quantity Indicator                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.8.5.5.     Oxygen Hose                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.8.6.       Install System Components
A13.8.6.1.     Diluter Demand Regulator                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.8.6.2.     Liquid Oxygen Converter                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.8.6.3.     Heat Exchanger Assembly                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.8.6.4.     LOX Quantity Indicator                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.8.6.5.     Oxygen Hose                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.8.7.       Drain / Fill / Purge
A13.8.7.1.     Liquid Oxygen Converter                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.8.7.2.     O2 System                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.8.8.       Repair / Bench Check /
               Calibrate Components
A13.8.8.1.     Liquid Oxygen Converter                      */R                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.8.8.2.     LOX Quantity Indicator                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.9.         AC POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.9.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.9.2.       Inspect                                                *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.9.3.       Troubleshoot                                           *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.9.4.       Perform System Operational Check             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.       Remove System Components
A13.9.5.1.     Current Transformer                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.2.     Electrical Power Control Panel               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.9.5.3.     Generator Control Unit                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.4.     Generator Line Contactor                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.9.5.5.     IDG Drain Plug/Chip Detector                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.6.     IDG Filter Cap and Valve                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.7.     IDG Gravity Fill Bleeder Plug                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.8.     IDG Oil Filter                                                                                                          -         -        -          -


                                                                    192
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 13
                                                  A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                           Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                   A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                               5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.9.5.9.     IDG Pressure Fill Adapter                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.10.    IDG Sight Glass                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.11.    IDG Speed Sensor                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.12.    IDG Splined Adapter                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.13.    Engine RPM Sensors                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.14.    Overflow Standpipe                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.15.    Scavenge Oil Filter Element                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.16.    Scavenge Oil Filter Assembly                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.9.5.17.    Scavenge Oil Filter Indicator                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.       Install System Components
A13.9.6.1.     Current Transformer                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.2.     Electrical Power Control Panel              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.9.6.3.     Generator Control Unit                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.4.     Generator Line Contactor                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.9.6.5.     IDG Drain Plug/Chip Detector                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.6.     IDG Filter Cap and Valve                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.7.     IDG Gravity Fill Bleeder Plug                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.8.     IDG Oil Filter                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.9.     IDG Pressure Fill Adapter                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.10.    IDG Sight Glass                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.11.    IDG Speed Sensor                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.12.    IDG Splined Adapter                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.13.    Engine RPM Sensors                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.14.    Overflow Standpipe                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.15.    Scavenge Oil Filter Element                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.16.    Scavenge Oil Filter Assembly                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.9.6.17.    Scavenge Oil Filter Indicator                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.9.7.       Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.9.7.1.     Electrical Power Control Panel                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.10         DC POWER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.10.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.10.2.      Inspect                                               *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.10.3.      Troubleshoot                                          *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.10.4.      Perform System Operational Check            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.10.5.      Remove System Components
A13.10.5.1.    DC Converter                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -


                                                                   193
                                                                                                                                               Attachment 13
                                                       A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.10.5.2.    Power Diode Box                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.10.5.3.    DC Junction Box                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.10.6.      Install System Components
A13.10.6.1.    DC Converter                                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.10.6.2.    Power Diode Box                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.10.6.3.    DC Junction Box                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.10.7.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.10.7.1.    DC Converter                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.10.7.2.    Power Diode Box                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.10.7.3.    DC Junction Box                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.11.        EMERGENCY, EXTERNAL AND APU POWER
               SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.11.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.11.2.      Inspect                                                    *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.11.3.      Troubleshoot                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.11.4.      Perform System Operational Check                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.      Remove System Components
A13.11.5.1.    AC Power Relay Box (Cockpit)                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.2.    Aircraft Battery                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.11.5.3.    External Battery Disconnect Switch                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.4.    Inverter                                         */R                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.5.    AC Power Relay Box (Fuselage)                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.6.    Bus Tie Contactor                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.11.5.7.    External Power Monitor                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.8.    External Power Receptacle                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.9.    External Power Monitor Reset Switch                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.10.   APU/External Power Contactor                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.11.   APU Generator Control Unit                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.11.5.12.   APU Generator Current Transformer                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.13.   APU Electronic Control Box (Blue Box)                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.11.5.14.   Battery Vent Tube Assembly                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.11.6.      Install System Components
A13.11.6.1.    AC Power Relay Box (Cockpit)                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.11.6.2.    Aircraft Battery                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.11.6.3.    External Battery Disconnect Switch                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.11.6.4.    Inverter                                         */R                                                                        -         -        -          -


                                                                        194
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 13
                                                       A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.11.6.5.    AC Power Relay Box (Fuselage)                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.11.6.6.    Bus Tie Contactor                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.11.6.7.    External Power Monitor                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.11.6.8.    External Power Receptacle                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.11.6.9.    External Power Monitor Reset Switch                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.11.6.10.   APU/External Power Contactor                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.11.6.11.   APU Generator Control Unit                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.11.6.12.   APU Generator Current Transformer                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.11.6.13.   APU Electronic Control Box (Blue Box)                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.11.6.14.   Battery Vent Tube Assembly                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.11.7.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.11.7.1.    AC Power Relay Box (Cockpit)                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.11.7.2.    Aircraft Battery                                 */R                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.11.7.3.    Inverter                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.11.7.4.    AC Power Relay Box (Fuselage)                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.12.        POWER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.12.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.12.2.      Inspect                                                    *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.12.3.      Troubleshoot                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.12.4.      Perform System Operational Check                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.12.5.      Remove System Components
A13.12.5.1.    Essential Circuit Breaker Box Panel                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.12.5.2.    LH Load Center Circuit Breaker Panel                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.12.5.3.    RH Load Center Circuit Breaker Panel                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.12.5.4.    Auxiliary RH Circuit Breaker Box                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.12.5.5.    Warning Caution Advisory Panel                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.12.6.      Install System Components
A13.12.6.1.    Essential Circuit Breaker Box Panel                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.12.6.2.    LH Load Center Circuit Breaker Panel                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.12.6.3.    RH Load Center Circuit Breaker Panel                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.12.6.4.    Auxiliary RH Circuit Breaker Box                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.12.6.5.    Warning Caution Advisory Panel                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.12.7.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.12.7.1.    Essential Circuit Breaker Box Panel                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.12.7.2.    LH Load Center Circuit Breaker Panel                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.12.7.3.    RH Load Center Circuit Breaker Panel                                                                                        -         -        -          -


                                                                        195
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 13
                                                        A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.12.7.4.    Auxiliary RH Circuit Breaker Box                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.12.7.5.    Warning Caution Advisory Panel                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.13.        EXTERIOR / INTERIOR LIGHTING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.13.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.13.2.      Inspect                                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.13.3.      Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.13.4.      Perform System Operational Check                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.      Remove System Components
A13.13.5.1.    Exterior Lamps/Lamp Assemblies                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.13.5.2.    Interior Lamps/Lamp Assemblies                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.13.5.3.    Flasher/Dimmer Control                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.4.    Flashtube (Strobe) Power Supply                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.5.    Landing/Taxi Light Assembly                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.6.    Lighting Transformer Box                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.7.    Vertical Fin Lighting Transformer Box                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.8.    Lightning Suppressor                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.9.    Nacelle Floodlight Dimmer                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.10.   Auxiliary Lighting Control Panel                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.11.   Console lighting edge-lit panels (Typical)                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.12.   Exterior/Interior Lights Control Panel                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.13.5.13.   Floodlights Dimming Controller                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.14.   Interior Lighting Balance Control                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.13.5.15.   Utility Light Panel Assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.13.5.16.   Instrument/Control Panel Postlights (Miscellaneous)   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.13.6.      Install System Components
A13.13.6.1.    Exterior Lamps/Lamp Assemblies                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.13.6.2.    Interior Lamps/Lamp Assemblies                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.13.6.3.    Flasher/Dimmer Control                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.13.6.4.    Flashtube (Strobe) Power Supply                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.13.6.5.    Landing/Taxi Light Assembly                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.13.6.6.    Lighting Transformer Box                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.13.6.7.    Vertical Fin Lighting Transformer Box                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.13.6.8.    Lightning Suppressor                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.13.6.9.    Nacelle Floodlight Dimmer                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.13.6.10.   Auxiliary Lighting Control Panel                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.13.6.11.   Console lighting edge-lit panels (Typical)                                                                                       -         -        -          -


                                                                             196
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 13
                                                        A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.13.6.12.   Exterior/Interior Lights Control Panel                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.13.6.13.   Floodlights Dimming Controller                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.13.6.14.   Interior Lighting Balance Control                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.13.6.15.   Utility Light Panel Assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.13.6.16.   Instrument/Control Panel Postlights (Miscellaneous)   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.13.7.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.13.7.1.    Lighting Transformer Box                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.13.7.2.    Vertical Fin Lighting Transformer Box                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.13.7.3.    Auxiliary Lighting Control Panel                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.13.7.4.    Exterior/Interior Lights Control Panel                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.13.7.5.    Interior Lighting Balance Control                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.13.7.6.    Utility Light Panel Assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.14.        MASTER CAUTION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.14.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.14.2.      Inspect                                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.14.3.      Troubleshoot                                                    *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.14.4.      Perform System Operational Check                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.14.5.      Remove System Components
A13.14.5.1.    Caution Annunciator Panel                             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.14.5.2.    Master Caution Light Assembly                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.14.5.3.    Master Caution Light Flasher                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.14.6.      Install System Components
A13.14.6.1.    Caution Annunciator Panel                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.14.6.2.    Master Caution Light Assembly                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.14.6.3.    Master Caution Light Flasher                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.14.7.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.14.7.1.    Caution Annunciator Panel                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.15.        FLAPS / SLATS SYSTEM
A13.15.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.15.2.      Operational Check                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.15.3.      Inspect                                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.15.4.      Troubleshoot                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.15.5.      Remove System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A13.15.5.1.    Position Control Unit                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.15.5.2.    Audio Stall Warning Control Panel                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.15.5.3.    Stall Warning and Peak Performance Audible Alarms                                                                                -         -        -          -


                                                                             197
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 13
                                                    A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.15.6.      Install System Components
A13.15.6.1.    Position Control Unit                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.15.6.2.    Audio Stall Warning Control Panel                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.15.6.3.    Stall Warning and Peak Performance Audible Alarms                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.15.7.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.15.7.1.    Audio Stall Warning Control Panel                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.16.        SPEED BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.16.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.16.2.      Operational Check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.16.3.      Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.16.4.      Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.16.5.      Remove System Components
A13.16.5.1.    Cam Limit Switch                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.16.5.2.    Speed Brake Control Switch                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.16.6.      Install System Components
A13.16.6.1.    Cam Limit Switch                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.16.6.2.    Speed Brake Control Switch                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.17.        FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.17.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.17.2.      Operational Check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.17.3.      Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.17.4.      Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.17.5.      Remove System Components
A13.17.5.1.    Emergency Flight Control Panel                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.17.5.2.    Roll Trim Controller                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.17.6.      Install System Components
A13.17.6.1.    Emergency Flight Control Panel                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.17.6.2.    Roll Trim Controller                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.17.7.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.17.7.1.    Emergency Flight Control Panel                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.18.        FUEL SYSTEM
A13.18.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.18.2.      Operational Check                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A13.18.3.      Inspect                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.18.4.      Troubleshoot                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -


                                                                           198
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 13
                                                      A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.18.5.      Remove System Components
A13.18.5.1.    Single Point Refueling System Test Box Assembly                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.18.5.2.    SPR Door Interlock Switch                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.18.5.3.    Aerial Refueling Receptacle Induction Coil                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.18.5.4.    Aerial Refueling Receptacle Kickout Relay                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.18.5.5.    ARR Door Open Downlock & Close Uplock Switch                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.18.5.6.    Aerial Refueling Receptacle Nozzle Contact Switch                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.18.5.7.    Aerial Refueling Receptacle Nozzle Latch Switch                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.18.5.8.    ARR RCVR Control Lever Switches                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.18.5.9.    Fuel Management Panel                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.18.6.      Install System Components
A13.18.6.1.    Single Point Refueling System Test Box Assembly                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.18.6.2.    SPR Door Interlock Switch                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.18.6.3.    Aerial Refueling Receptacle Induction Coil                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.18.6.4.    Aerial Refueling Receptacle Kickout Relay                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A13.18.6.5.    ARR Door Open Downlock & Close Uplock Switch                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.18.6.6.    Aerial Refueling Receptacle Nozzle Contact Switch                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.18.6.7.    Aerial Refueling Receptacle Nozzle Latch Switch                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.18.6.8.    ARR RCVR Control Lever Switches                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.18.6.9.    Fuel Management Panel                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.18.7.      Splice Fuel System Components
A13.18.7.1.    Main / Wing Float and Pressure Switches                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.18.7.2.    Main / Wing Tank Valves                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.18.8.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.18.8.1.    Single Point Refueling System Test Box Assembly                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.18.8.2.    Fuel Management Panel                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.19.        LANDING GEAR SYSTEM MAIN / NOSE
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.19.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.19.2.      Inspect                                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.19.3.      Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.19.4.      Perform System Operational Check                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.19.5.      Remove System Components
A13.19.5.1.    Main / Nose Landing Gear Uplock Switches            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.19.5.2.    Weight On Wheel Switch                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.19.5.3.    Nose Landing Gear Up Switch                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A13.19.5.4.    Landing Gear Shock Strut Harnesses                                                                                             -         -        -          -


                                                                           199
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 13
                                                    A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                              Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.19.5.5.    Main / Nose Landing Gear Downlock Switches     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.19.6.      Install System Components
A13.19.6.1.    Main / Nose Landing Gear Uplock Switches       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.19.6.2.    Weight On Wheel Switch                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.19.6.3.    Nose Landing Gear Up Switch                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.19.6.4.    Landing Gear Shock Strut Harness                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.19.6.5.    Main / Nose Landing Gear Downlock Switches     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.19.7.      Splice Landing Gear System Components
A13.19.7.1.    Main / Nose Landing Gear Drag Strut Assembly                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.19.8.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.19.8.1.    Landing Gear Shock Strut Harnesses                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.20.        LANDING GEAR SYSTEM WARNING/CONTROL
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.20.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.20.2.      Inspect                                                  *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.20.3.      Troubleshoot                                             *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.20.4.      Perform System Operational Check               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.20.5.      Remove System Components
A13.20.5.1.    Landing Gear Control Panel                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.20.5.2.    Audible Signal Warning Unit                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.20.6.      Install System Components
A13.20.6.1.    Landing Gear Control Panel                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.20.6.2.    Audible Signal Warning Unit                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.20.7.      Repair / Overhaul / Bench Check Components
A13.20.7.1.    Landing Gear Control Panel                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.21.        NOSE WHEEL STEERING SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.21.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.21.2.      Inspect                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.21.3.      Troubleshoot                                             *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.21.4.      Perform System Operational Check               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.21.5.      Adjust position transducer                     *
A13.21.6.      Remove System Components
A13.21.6.1.    Control Unit                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.21.6.2.    Position Transducer                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.21.6.3.    Stick Grip                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.21.7.      Install System Components


                                                                      200
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 13
                                                   A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                            2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                            Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                    3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.21.7.1.    Control Unit                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A13.21.7.2.    Position Transducer                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.21.7.3.    Stick Grip                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.21.8.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.21.8.1.    Position Transducer                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.21.8.2.    Stick Grip                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.22.        ANTI-SKID AND BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.22.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.22.2.      Inspect                                                *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.22.3.      Troubleshoot                                           *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.22.4.      Perform System Operational Check             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.22.5.      Remove System Components
A13.22.5.1.    Anti-Skid Control Unit                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.22.5.2.    Wheel Speed Transducer                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.22.5.3.    Anti-Skid Cutout Switch                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.22.5.4     Anti-Skid Emergency Disconnect Switch                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.22.6.      Install System Components
A13.22.6.1.    Anti-Skid Control Unit                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.22.6.2.    Wheel Speed Transducer                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.22.6.3.    Anti-Skid Cutout Switch                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.22.6.4.    Anti-Skid Emergency Disconnect Switch                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.23.        AIRFRAME, CANOPY, WINDSHIELD,
               LADDER AND MISC.
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.23.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.23.2.      Inspect                                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.23.3.      Troubleshoot                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A13.23.4.      Perform Systems Operational Check                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A13.23.5.      Remove System Components
A13.23.5.1.    Canopy / Windshield Seal                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.23.5.2.    Canopy Control Switches                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.23.5.3.    Canopy Close Switch (Turtle Deck)                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A13.23.5.4.    Canopy Lock/Unlock Switches                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.23.5.5.    Canopy Lock / Unlock Solenoids               *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.23.5.6.    Crew Boarding Ladder Switch                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.23.5.7.    Ladder Door Latch Solenoid                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.23.5.8.    Seat Adjustment Switch                                                                                                  -         -        -          -

                                                                    201
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 13
                                                    A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                             Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.23.5.9.    Pressure Bulkhead Panels                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.23.5.10.   Relay Control Panels                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.23.5.11.   Hydraulic Pump Blocking Control Switch                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.23.6.      Install System Components
A13.23.6.1.    Canopy / Windshield Seal                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.23.6.2.    Canopy Control Switches                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.23.6.3.    Canopy Close Switch (Turtle Deck)                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A13.23.6.4.    Canopy Lock/Unlock Switches                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.23.6.5.    Canopy Lock / Unlock Solenoids                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.23.6.6.    Crew Boarding Ladder Switch                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A13.23.6.7.    Ladder Door Latch Solenoid                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.23.6.8.    Seat Adjustment Switch                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.23.6.9.    Pressure Bulkhead Panels                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.23.6.10.   Relay Control Panels                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.23.6.11.   Hydraulic Pump Blocking Control Switch                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A13.23.7.      Repair / Bench Check Components
A13.23.7.1.    Relay Control Panels                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A13.24.        POWER PLANT FIRE DETECTION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.24.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.24.2.      Inspect                                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.24.3.      Troubleshoot                                            *                                                                -         -        -          -
A13.24.4.      Perform System Operational Check              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.24.5.      Remove System Components
A13.24.5.1.    Fire Detector Control Unit                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.24.5.2.    Fire Detector Sensor Cable                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.24.6.      Install System Components
A13.24.6.1.    Fire Detector Control Unit                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A13.24.6.2.    Fire Detector Sensor Cable                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A13.25.        AUXILIARY POWER UNIT STARTING AND
               IGNITION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.25.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A13.25.2.      Inspect                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A13.25.3.      Troubleshoot                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A13.26.        POWER PLANT STARTING AND
               IGNITION SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs

                                                                     202
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 13
                                               A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A13.26.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A13.26.2.      Inspect                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A13.26.3.      Troubleshoot                                                                                                      -         -        -          -




                                                              203
                                                                                                                                          Attachment 13
     A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                204
                                     Attachment 13
                                                          B-1B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                            2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                            Tasks                                                                       Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 14
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 14 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain B-1B aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ ACC/A4QT,
DSN 574-7014. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A14.1.          AIRCRAFT SAFE FOR MAINTENANCE
                TR: 1B-1B-2-05JG-20-1E
A14.1.1.        Ensure aircraft is safe for maintenance                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.2.          OVERWING FAIRING
                TR: 1B-1B-2-05JG-50-1
A14.2.1.        Perform overwing fairing, opening and closing                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A14.3.          CENTRAL AIRCRAFT SUPPORT SYSTEM
                (CASS)/ HANGER SYSTEM
                TR: Local System Operating Instructions
A14.3.1.        Operate central aircraft support system (CASS)/                                                                                          -        -        -          -
                hanger system
A14.3.1.1.      Electrical                                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A14.3.1.2.      Shop Air                                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.3.1.3.      Cooling Air                                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A14.4.          HARDNESS CRITICAL CHECKS
                TR: 1B-1B-2-00WD-00-1
A14.4.1.        Perform hardness critical procedures (HCP) checks            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.5.          BLEED AIR SYSTEM
A14.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.5.2.        Operational Check                                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.5.3.        Inspect system                                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.5.4.        Troubleshoot System                                                    *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.5.5.        Borescope System Components                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A14.6.          BLEED AIR COMPONENTS
                TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-10-1
A14.6.1.        Remove and replace bleed air components                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.6.2.        Precooler blower inlet door actuator                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.6.3.        Remove and replace bleed air pressure components
                TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-10-2
A14.6.3.1.      Wing fairing seal pressure regulator                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A14.6.3.2.      Crew entry door seal emergency dump valve                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A14.7.          COOLING AIR SYSTEM
A14.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.7.2.        Operational Check                                            *                                                                           -        -        -          -


                                                                                     205
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 14
                                                      B-1B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                      Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A14.7.3.       Inspect system                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.7.4.       Troubleshoot System                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.8.         COOLING AIR COMPONENTS
A14.8.1.       Remove and replace cooling air components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG -20-1, 1B-1B-2-21JG-20-2,
               1B-1B-2-21JG-20-4
A14.8.1.1.     Equipment bay ram air scoop/exhaust door Actuators                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.8.1.2.     Equipment bay air recirculation loop heat exchangers                                                                               -        -        -          -
A14.8.1.3.     Air distribution shutoff valves                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A14.9.         COMPARTMENT PRESSURE SYSTEM
A14.9.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.9.2.       Operational Check                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.9.3.       Inspect system                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.9.4.       Troubleshoot System                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.10.        COMPARTMENT PRESSURE COMPONENTS
A14.10.1.      Remove and replace crew air conditioning
               Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-30-1
A14.10.1.1.    Forward equipment inflow pressure regulator                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A14.11.        CREW AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
A14.11.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.11.2.      Operational Check                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.11.3.      Inspect system                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.11.4.      Troubleshoot System                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.12.        CREW AIR CONDITIONING COMPONENTS
A14.12.1.      Remove and replace crew air conditioning
               Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-50-1
A14.12.1.1.    Crew unit shutoff valve                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.12.1.2.    Crew unit modulation valve                             *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.12.1.3.    Crew unit flow sensor                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.12.1.4.    Crew unit turbo-compressor                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A14.12.1.5.    Crew unit intercooler heat exchanger                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A14.12.1.6.    Crew unit 35 degree modulation valve                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.13.        STORES AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
A14.13.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.13.2.      Operational Check                                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.13.3.      Inspect system                                                   *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.13.4.      Troubleshoot System                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -

                                                                              206
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 14
                                                        B-1B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A14.14.        STORES AIR CONDITIONING COMPONENTS
A14.14.1.      Remove and replace stores air conditioning
               Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-50-1
A14.14.1.1.    Stores unit throttling valve                      *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.14.1.2.    Stores unit control head                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.14.1.3.    Stores unit turbo-compressor                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A14.14.1.4.    Stores unit intercooler heat exchanger                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A14.14.1.5.    Stores unit 35 degree modulation valve                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A14.14.1.6.    Stores unit 80 degree modulation valve                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A14.15.        REGEN AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
A14.15.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A14.15.2.      Operational Check                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.15.3.      Inspect system                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.15.4.      Troubleshoot System                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.16.        REGEN AIR CONDITIONING COMPONENTS
A14.16.1.      Remove and replace regen air conditioning
               Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-50-2
A14.16.1.1.    Regen unit throttling valves                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A14.16.1.2.    Regen unit turbo compressors                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A14.16.1.3.    Regen unit intercooler heat exchangers                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A14.16.1.4.    Regen unit load heat exchanger                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A14.17.        TEMPERATURE CONTROL SYSTEM
A14.17.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A14.17.2.      Operational Check                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.17.3.      Inspect system                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.17.4.      Troubleshoot System                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.18.        TEMPERATURE CONTROL SYSTEM
               COMPONENTS
A14.18.1.      Remove and replace temperature control system
               Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-60-1
A14.18.1.1.    Coolant temperature controller                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A14.18.1.2.    Stores air thermal management controller                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A14.18.1.3.    Crew air temperature controller                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A14.18.1.4.    Temperature control bypass valve                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A14.19.        MOISTURE / AIR AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
A14.19.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -        -        -          -


                                                                         207
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 14
                                                        B-1B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                  Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A14.19.2.      Operational Check                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.19.3.      Inspect system                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.19.4.      Troubleshoot System                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.20.        MOISTURE/AIR AIR CONDITIONING
               COMPONENTS
A14.20.1.      Remove and replace moisture/air air conditioning
               Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-70-1
A14.20.1.1.    Crew unit water separator                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.20.1.2.    Stores unit water separator                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.20.1.3.    Crew unit radioactive particulate filter housing                                                                               -        -        -          -
A14.20.1.4.    Crew unit radioactive particulate filter element                                                                               -        -        -          -
A14.21.        COOLANT SYSTEM
A14.21.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A14.21.2.      Operational Check                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.21.3.      Inspect system                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.21.4.      Troubleshoot System                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.22.        COOLANT SYSTEM COMPONENTS
A14.22.1.      Remove and replace coolant system components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-80-1, TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-80-2
A14.22.1.1.    Pressure relief valves                                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A14.22.1.2.    Fuel heat sink thermal bypass valve                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A14.22.1.3.    Coolant loop ground service check valve                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A14.22.1.4.    Coolant loop isolation valves                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A14.22.1.5.    Fast warmup heat exchanger                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A14.22.1.6.    Fast warmup heat exchanger thermal bypass valve                                                                                -        -        -          -
A14.23.        FUEL HEAT SINK SYSTEM
A14.23.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A14.23.2.      Operational Check                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.23.3.      Inspect system                                               *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.23.4.      Troubleshoot System                                          *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.24.        FUEL HEAT SINK COMPONENTS
A14.24.1.      Remove and replace fuel heat sink components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-21JG-80-3
A14.24.1.1.    Fuel Heat Sink Components                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A14.24.1.2.    Fuel heat sink ground cooling door actuator                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A14.24.1.3.    Fuel cooling blower                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.25.        INTEGRATED DRIVE GENERATOR (IDG)
               TR: TCTO 1B-1B-1202, 1B-1B-2-24JG-20-1

                                                                          208
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 14
                                                      B-1B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A14.25.1.      Remove IDG                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.25.2.      Disassembly of IDG                                *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.25.3.      Assembly of IDG                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.25.4.      Install IDG                                       *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.25.5.      Initial Servicing of IDG                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.25.6.      Leak Check of IDG                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.26.        INTEGRATED DRIVE GENERATOR SYSTEM
A14.26.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A14.26.2.      Operational Check                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.26.3.      Inspect system                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.26.4.      Troubleshoot System                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.27.        INTERGRATED DRIVE DENERATOR SYSTEM
               COMPONENTS
               TR: 1B-1B-2-24JG-10-1
A14.27.1.      CSD fluid temperature sensor                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A14.27.2.      IDG cooling relief valve                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A14.27.3.      Remove and Install IDG filter                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.28.        DC ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM
A14.28.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A14.28.2.      Operational Check                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.28.3.      Inspect system                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.28.4.      Troubleshoot System                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.29.        DC ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM
               COMPONENTS
A14.29.1.      Remove and replace DC electrical power system
               Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-24JG-30-1
A14.29.1.1.    TR Isolator                                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A14.30.        ELECTRICAL LOAD DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
A14.30.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A14.30.2.      Operational Check                                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.30.3.      Inspect system                                              *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.30.4.      Troubleshoot System                                         *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.31.        ELECTRICAL LOAD DISTRIBUTION
               COMPONENTS
A14.31.1.      Remove and replace electrical load distribution
               Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-24JG-50-5
A14.31.1.1.    Essential bus voltage sensor                                                                                                  -        -        -          -


                                                                         209
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 14
                                                     B-1B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                        Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A14.32.        FIRE DETECTION SYSTEM
A14.32.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A14.32.2.      Operational Check                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.32.3.      Inspect system                                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.32.4.      Troubleshoot System                                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.33.        FIRE DETECTION SYSTEM COMPONENT
A14.33.1.      Remove and replace fire detection system
               Component
               TR: 1B-1B-2-26JG-10-1, 1B-1B-2-26JG-20-3
A14.33.1.1.    Fire detection panel                                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.33.1.2.    Fire detection control unit                              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.33.1.3.    Fire warning and extinguishing panel (FWEP)              *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.34.        FLUID TEMPERATURE SIGNAL
               CONDITIONING AND DISTRIBUTION
               UNIT (SCDU, HYD TEMP)
               TR: 1B-1B-2-29JG-30-1
A14.34.1.      Remove and replace fluid temperature signal                                                                                          -        -        -          -
               conditioning and distribution unit (SCDU, Hyd Temp)
A14.34.2.      Inspect SCDU                                                       *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.35.        VANE ENGINE HEAT SYSTEM (VEHS)
               CONTROLLER
               TR: 1B-1B-2-30JG-20-1
A14.35.1.      Remove and replace vane engine heat system (VEHS)                                                                                    -        -        -          -
               controller
A14.36.        LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
A14.36.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A14.36.2.      Operational Check                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.36.3.      Inspect system                                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.36.4.      Troubleshoot System                                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.37.        LANDING GEAR SYSTEM COMPONENTS
A14.37.1.      Remove and replace landing gear system
               Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-32JG-30-5, 1B-1B-2-32WD-00-1,
               Applicable Engineering Drawings
A14.37.1.1.    Main landing gear proximity switch electronics package   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.37.1.2.    Main landing gear harness                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A14.38.        LIGHTING SYSTEM
A14.38.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A14.38.2.      Operational Check                                        *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.38.3.      Inspect system                                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -


                                                                                210
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 14
                                                          B-1B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                   Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A14.38.4.      Troubleshoot System                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.39.        LIGHTING SYSTEM COMPONENTS
A14.39.1.      Remove and replace lighting system components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-33JG-10-1, 1B-1B-2-33JG-10-2,
               1B-1B-2-33JG-30-1, 1B-1B-2-33JG-40-1
A14.39.1.1.    Left and right overhead panel drivers                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.39.1.2.    Night vision imagining system (NVIS) modules                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A14.39.1.3.    Light switch panels                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A14.39.1.4.    Left, right, and tail anti-collision light power                                                                                -        -        -          -
               supplies/filters
A14.39.1.5.    Tail position light transformer                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.39.1.6.    Left and right aerial refuel/wing inspection                                                                                    -        -        -          -
               lights dimmer/power supplies
A14.40.         SELF-GENERATING OXYGEN SYSTEM (MSOGS)
               TR: 8 series component TOs
A14.40.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A14.40.2.      Operational check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.40.3.      Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.40.4.      Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.40.5.      Purge system                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A14.40.6.      Remove components
A14.40.6.1.    Concentrator                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A14.40.6.2.    Particle filters                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.40.6.3.    Controller                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A14.40.7.      Install components
A14.40.7.1.    Concentrator                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A14.40.7.2.    Particle filters                                    *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.40.7.3.    Controller                                                                                                                      -        -        -          -
A14.40.7.4.    Perform leak check                                  *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.41.        BACK-UP OXYGEN SYSTEM
A14.41.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A14.41.2.      Operational Check                                   *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.41.3.      Inspect system                                                *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.41.4.      Troubleshoot System                                           *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.42.        BACK-UP OXYGEN SYSTEM COMPONENTS
A14.42.1.      Remove and Replace Oxygen System Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-35JG-10-1, 1B-1B-2-35JG-30-1
A14.42.1.1     Oxygen regulator                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A14.42.1.2.    Backup oxygen fill panel pressure gage                                                                                          -        -        -          -

                                                                           211
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 14
                                                        B-1B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                         Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A14.42.1.3.    Backup oxygen release valve                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.42.1.4.    Oxygen control panel                                                                                                                  -        -        -          -
A14.42.1.5.    Oxygen purge valve                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A14.42.1.6.    Backup oxygen pressure transducer                                                                                                     -        -        -          -
A14.42.1.7.    Backup O2 bottle                                          *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.43.        GROUND READINESS TESTS (GRT)
               TR: 1B-1B-2-40JG-24-1
A14.43.1.      Perform ground readiness tests (GRT)
A14.43.1.1.    Generator control unit GRT                                                                                                            -        -        -          -
A14.43.1.2.    System integration panel GRT                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A14.43.1.3.    Electrical power generation and distribution system GRT                                                                               -        -        -          -
A14.44.        CENTRAL INTEGRATED TEST SYSTEM (CITS)
               DEPLOYABLE DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEM (CDDS)
               TR: 33D7-3-380-1
A14.44.1.      Use Central Integrated Test System (CITS)                 *                                                                           -        -        -          -
               Deployable Diagnostic System (CDDS)
A14.45.        CREW ENTRY LADDER
A14.45.1.      Remove and replace crew entry ladder switches                                                                                         -        -        -          -
               TR: 1B-1B-2-52JG-10-1
A14.45.2.      Perform crew entry ladder operational checkout                                                                                        -        -        -          -
               TR: 1B-1B-2-52JG-10-1
A14.46.        ENGINE CONTROL SYSTEM
A14.46.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                              -        -        -          -
A14.46.2.      Operational Check                                         *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.46.3.      Inspect system                                                      *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.46.4.      Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.47.        ENGINE CONTROL SYSTEM COMPONENTS
A14.47.1.      Remove and replace engine control system
               Components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-76JG-10-1, 1B-1B-2-76JG-10-3
A14.47.1.1.    Pilot and copilot throttle quadrant                                                                                                   -        -        -          -
A14.47.1.2.    Pilot alternate throttle control panel                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A14.47.1.3.    Engine start panel                                                                                                                    -        -        -          -
A14.48.        AIRCRAFT POWER
               TR: 1B-1B-2-05JG-10-1 (S/S/SN 05-12-01/-13-01)
A14.48.1.      Perform pre-use inspection, operation, and aircraft                                                                                   -        -        -          -
               application of CASS Power
A14.49.        GROUND AIR COOLING
               TR: OI, 1B-1B-2-05JG-10-1 (S/S/SN 05-12-02),
               35E-9-9-51, 1B-1B-2-05JG-10-1 (S/S/SN 05-12-04)
A14.49.1.      Perform pre-use inspection, operation, and aircraft                                                                                   -        -        -          -


                                                                                 212
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 14
                                                       B-1B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                     Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
               application of Diesel MA-3D
A14.49.2.      Perform pre-use inspection, operation, and aircraft                                                                               -        -        -          -
               application of CASS/Ground Air
A14.50.        GROUND LIQUID COOLING
               TR: 35E-10-27-1, 1B-1B-2-21JG-80-1/80-2
A14.50.1.      Perform pre-use inspection, operation, and aircraft                                                                               -        -        -          -
               application of Ground Liquid Cooling Cart
A14.51.        AIRCRAFT SWITCH GUARDS
A14.51.1.      Remove and replace aircraft switch guards                                                                                         -        -        -          -
A14.51.2.      Operational Check                                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.52.        AIRCRAFT SERVICING
               TR: 1B-1B-2-12JG-20-1 (S/S/SN 12-23-01/-02/-03),
               1B-1B-2-12JG-30-1 (S/S/SN 12-32-01),
               1B-1B-2-12JG-30-1 (S/S/SN 12-32-02),
               1B-1B-2-12JG-30-1 (S/S/SN 12-30-04)
A14.52.1.      Accessory drive gearbox                                                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.52.2.      Auxiliary power units                                                                                                             -        -        -          -
A14.52.3.      Engine oil                                                                                                                        -        -        -          -
A14.52.4.      ACL/ICL/LCL                                                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A14.53.        AIR TURBINE STARTER SYSTEM
A14.53.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A14.53.2.      Operational Check                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.53.3.      Inspect system                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.53.4.      Troubleshoot System                                             *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.53.5.      Remove and replace air turbine components
               TR: 1B-1B-2-80JG-00-1 (S/S/SN 80-11-10),
               1B-1B-2-80JG-00-1 (S/S/SN 80-11-11)
A14.53.5.1.    Air turbine starter                                                                                                               -        -        -          -
A14.53.5.2.    Air turbine starter control valve                     *                                                                           -        -        -          -
A14.54.        ENGINE START SYSTEM
A14.54.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -        -        -          -
A14.54.2.      Operational Check                                                                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.54.3.      Inspect system                                                  *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.54.4.      Troubleshoot System                                             *                                                                 -        -        -          -
A14.54.5.      Remove and replace panels and control assemblies
               TR: 1B-1B-2-49JG-60-1 (S/S/SN 49-61-10
               [LH]/-62-10 [RH])
               1B-1B-2-80JG-00-1 (S/S/SN 80-11-14),
               1B-1B-2-49JG-40-1 (S/S/SN 49-42-16),
               1B-1B-2-49JG-42-17 (s/s/sn 49-42-17)
A14.54.5.1.    Engine start panel                                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A14.54.5.2.    APU start panel (crew compartment)                                                                                                -        -        -          -


                                                                             213
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 14
                                                       B-1B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A14.54.5.3.    APU electronic control assembly (ECA)                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A14.54.5.4.    External access/ alert panel                                                                                                -        -        -          -
A14.55.        AUXILIARY POWER UNITS (APU's)
               TR: 1B-1B-2-49JG-00-1,
               1B-1B-2-49JG-00-1 (S/S/SN 49-00-02)
A14.55.1.      Operate auxiliary power units (APU's)                                                                                       -        -        -          -
A14.55.2.      Remove and replace auxiliary power unit exhaust                                                                             -        -        -          -
               door switches




                                                                       214
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 14
                                                       CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                             Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 15
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 15 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain CV-22 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A15.1.         00 - GROUND HANDLING
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
               AFI 11-218, AFVA 11-225
A15.1.1.       Launch/Recover Aircraft                                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.1.2.       Remove/Install/Inspect Aircraft Safety Devices                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.1.3.       Apply External Electrical Power                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.1.4.       Apply External Hydraulic Power                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.1.5.       Apply External Air Conditioning                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.1.6.       Perform Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.2.         05 - AIRCRAFT INSPECTIONS
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-6, 00-20-1
A15.2.1.       Inspection Concept Principles                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A15.2.2.       Evaluate Magnetic Chip Detector/Collector                               *                                                                -         -        -          -
               Particles
A15.3.         07 - LIFTING, SHORING, RECOVERING &
               TRANSPORTING
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.3.1.       Jacking Team Member                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A15.3.2.       Jacking Team Supervisor                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A15.3.3.       Perform Axle Jacking                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A15.3.4.       Perform Aircraft Hoisting                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.4.         09 - TOWING AND TAXIING
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS), AFI 11-218,
               AFOSH STD 91-100, 00-25-172
A15.4.1.       Wing/Tail Tow Team Member                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.4.2.       Aircraft Brake Operator                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A15.4.3.       Tow Vehicle Operator                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A15.4.4.       Tow Supervisor                                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.5          10 - PARKING AND MOORING
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.5.1.       Moor Aircraft                                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A15.5.2.       Blade Fold Wing Stow Supervisor                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.5.3.       Blade Fold Wing Stow Team Member                                                                                                         -         -        -          -

A15.6.         12 - SERVICING
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS), 00-25-172,
               AFOSH STD 91-38
A15.6.1.       Pressure Refuel/Defuel Team Member                                                                                                       -         -        -          -

                                                                                     215
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 15
                                                          CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                      Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E            A         B             C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC   Course     CDC

A15.6.2.       Gravity Refuel Team Member                                                                                                         -          -        -        -
A15.6.3.       Perform Aircraft Wash                                                                                                              -          -        -        -
A15.7.         21 - AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
A15.7.1.       2100 - Air Conditioning
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.7.1.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.1.2.     Operational Checkout                                   *                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.1.3.     Inspect System Components                                        *                                                                 -          -        -        -
A15.7.1.4.     Troubleshoot System                                              *                                                                 -          -        -        -
A15.7.2.      2110 - Compression (Shaft Driven Compressor)
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.7.2.1.     Perform Operational and Leak Checkout                  *                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.2.2      Inspect System Components                                        *                                                                 -          -        -        -
A15.7.2.3.     Remove/Install Shaft Driven Compressor                 *                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.2.4.     Remove/Install Solenoid Valve                                                                                                      -          -        -        -
A15.7.2.5.     Remove/Install SDC Switch and Sensor Assemblies                                                                                    -          -        -        -
A15.7.2.6.     Remove/Install Chip Detector                           *                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.2.7.     Remove/Install Filter Assy                             *                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.2.8.     Drain and Service Shaft Driven Compressor              *                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.2.9.     Troubleshoot System                                              *                                                                 -          -        -        -
A15.7.3.       2120 - Air Conditioning Distribution
A15.7.3.1.     Leak Check Distribution Ducting                        *                                                                       -         -         -        -
A15.7.3.2.     Remove/Install Distribution Ducting                                                                                                -          -        -        -
A15.7.3.3.     Remove/Install Associated Check Valves                                                                                             -          -        -        -
A15.7.4.       2150 - Avionics Cooling System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.7.4.1.     Remove/Install Intake/Exhaust Fans                                                                                                 -          -        -        -
A15.7.4.2.     Remove/Install Filter Elements                                                                                                     -          -        -        -
A15.7.4.3.     Remove/Install Associated Switches and Sensors                                                                                     -          -        -        -
A15.7.4.4.     Remove/Install Bypass Check Valves                                                                                                 -          -        -        -
A15.7.4.5.     Remove/Install Inlet Partical Separators                                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.4.6.     Remove/Install Other Avionics Cooling Components                                                                                   -          -        -        -
A15.7.4.7.     Troubleshoot System                                              *                                                                 -          -        -        -
A15.7.5.       2190 - Integrated Environmental Control System
               (ECS) TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.7.5.1.     Remove/Install Environmental Control Unit (ECU) Assy   *                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.5.2.     Remove/Install/Clean ECU Filter                        *                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.5.3.     Remove/Install Air Cycle Machine                       *                                                                           -          -        -        -
A15.7.5.4.     Remove/Install Associated ECS Components                                                                                           -          -        -        -

                                                                              216
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 15
                                                       CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                         Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A15.8.         24 - ELECTRICAL POWER
A15.8.1.       2400 - Electrical Power
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.8.1.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A15.8.1.2.     Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.8.2.       2420 - AC Power System                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.8.2.1.     Perform Operational Checkout                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.2.2.     Remove/Install AC Contactors                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A15.8.2.3.     Remove/Install Constant Frequency (CF) Generators         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.2.4.     Remove/Install Variable Frequency (VF) Generators         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.2.5.     Remove/Install AC Current Feedthrough Transformers (CT)                                                                              -         -        -          -
A15.8.2.6.     Service/Drain VF Generators                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.2.7.     Remove/Install Power Distribution Panels (4 ea)                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A15.8.2.8.     Remove/Install Other Associated AC Power Components                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A15.8.2.9.     Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.8.3.       2430 - DC Power System                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.8.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A15.8.3.2.     Operational Check                                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.8.3.4.     Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.8.3.5.     Remove/Install Regulated Converters (3 ea)                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.3.6.     Remove/Install Battery Relay Control Unit (BRCU)          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.3.7.     Remove/Install DC System Contactors/Relays                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.8.3.8.     Remove/Install Remote Control Circuit Breakers (RCCB)                                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.8.3.9.     Remove/Install Battery Control Panel                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.3.10.    Remove/Install Aircraft Battery                           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.4.       2440 - External Power System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.8.4.1.     Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.8.4.2.     Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.8.4.3.     Remove/Install External Power Monitor                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.4.4.     Remove/Install External Power Receptacle                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A15.8.4.5.     Remove/Install External Power Contactor                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A15.8.5.       2450 - AC Power Distribution
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.8.5.1.     Operational Check                                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.5.2.     Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                -         -        -          -

                                                                                 217
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 15
                                                      CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A15.8.5.3.     Remove/Install AC Bus Health Monitors                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A15.8.5.4.     Remove/Install EMI Filters                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A15.8.5.5.     Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.8.5.6.     Remove/Install Associated Components                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A15.8.6.       2460 - DC Power Distribution
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.8.6.1.     Operational Check                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.8.6.2.     Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.8.6.3.     Remove/Install DC Bus Health Monitors                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A15.8.6.4      Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.8.6.5.     Remove/Install Associated Components                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A15.9.         25 - EQUIPMENT AND FURNISHINGS
A15.9.1.       2510 - Flight Compartment
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.9.1.1.     Remove/Install Flight Compartment Panels                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A15.9.2.       2520 - Passenger Crew Compartment
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.9.2.1.     Remove/Install Cockpit Door                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.9.3.       2592 - Rescue Hoist
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.9.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A15.9.3.2.     Operational Check                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.9.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.9.3.4.     Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.9.3.5.     Remove/Install cutter/squib                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.10.        26 - FIRE PROTECTION
A15.10.1.      2600 - Fire Protection System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS), 11A-1-33
A15.10.1.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A15.10.1.2.    Operational Check                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.10.1.3.    Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.10.1.4.    Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.10.2.      2610 - Fire Detection
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.10.2.1.    Remove/Install Nacelle Pneumatic Detector       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.10.2.2.    Remove/Install Optical Detectors                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.10.3.      2620 - Fire Extinguishing
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS), 11A-1-33
A15.10.3.1.    Remove/Install Fire Bottle Assy                 *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.10.3.2.    Remove/Install Fire Extinguishing Components                                                                               -         -        -          -

                                                                       218
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 15
                                                        CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                         Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A15.10.3.3.    Remove/Install Fire bottle explosive cartridge            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.10.4.      2630 - Explosion Suppression (Gas Generators)
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS), 11A-1-33
A15.10.4.1.    Remove/Install Engine Extinguishing Distribution Tubing                                                                              -         -        -          -
A15.10.4.2.    Remove/Install Wing Fire Protection System (WFPS)         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               Disable Switch

A15.10.4.3.    Remove/Install Gas Generator Fire Suppressors             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.11.        29 - HYDRAULIC POWER
A15.11.1.      2925 - Cargo Ramp/Door Control System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.11.1.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                             -         -         -        -
A15.11.1.2.    Operational Check                                         *                                                                          -         -         -        -
A15.11.1.3.    Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.11.1.4.    Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.11.1.5.    Remove/Install Ramp/Door Indicator Switches                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.11.1.6.    Remove/Install Ramp/Door Control Switches                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A15.12.        30 - ICE AND RAIN PROTECTION
A15.12.1.      3010 - Airfoil Ice and Rain Protection
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.12.1.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                             -         -         -        -
A15.12.1.2.    Operational Check                                         *                                                                          -         -         -        -
A15.12.1.3.    Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.12.1.4.    Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.12.1.5.    Remove/Install De-Ice Boots                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.12.1.6.    Remove/Install De-ice Boot Pressure Switches              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.12.1.7.    Remove/Install Wing De-Ice Components                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.12.1.8.    Remove/Install De-ice Boot Solenoid Valves                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.12.2.      3040 - Rain Removal System (Windshield Wipers)
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.12.2.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                             -         -         -        -
A15.12.2.2.    Operational Check                                         *                                                                          -         -         -        -
A15.12.2.3.    Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.12.2.4.    Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.12.2.5.    Remove/Install Pump/Motor Assy                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A15.12.2.6.    Remove/Install Motor                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A15.12.2.7.    Remove/Install Wiper Converters                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A15.12.2.8.    Rig/Adjust Windshield Wiper System                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A15.12.2.9.    Remove/Install Other Associated Windshield Wiper                                                                                     -         -        -          -
               Components


                                                                                 219
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 15
                                                      CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                        Tasks                                                                       Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A15.12.3.      3060 - Propeller/Rotor De-Ice System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.12.3.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                             -         -         -        -
A15.12.3.2.    Operational Check                                        *                                                                           -         -         -        -
A15.12.3.3.    Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.12.3.4.    Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.12.3.5.    Troubleshoot Rotor De-Ice System Malfunctions                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.12.3.6.    Remove/Install De-ice Distributors                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.12.3.7.    Remove/Install Other Associated Components                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.12.4.      3080 - Ice Protection System Detection/Controls
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.12.4.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                             -         -         -        -
A15.12.4.2.    Operational Check                                        *                                                                           -         -         -        -
A15.12.4.3.    Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.12.4.4.    Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.12.4.5.    Remove/Install Master Ice Protection Controller          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.12.4.6.    Remove/Install LH/RH Nacelle Ice Protection Control Units *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.12.4.7.    Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.12.4.8.    Remove/Install Other Associated Components                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.13.        32 - LANDING GEAR
A15.13.1.      3200 - Landing Gear System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.13.1.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A15.13.1.2.    Operational Check                                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.13.1.3.    Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.13.1.4.    Troubleshoot System                                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.13.1.5     Remove/Install Landing Gear Control Unit                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.13.1.6.    Remove/Install Miscellaneous Landing Gear Electrical                                                                                 -         -        -          -
               Components
A15.13.2.      3210 - Main Landing Gear System (MLG)
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.13.2.1.    Rig/Adjust MLG Electrical Components                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A15.13.2.2.    Remove/Install Weight on Wheels Swtiches                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.13.3.      3220 - Nose Landing Gear System (NLG)
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.13.3.1.    Rig/Adjust NLG Electrical Components                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A15.13.3.2.    Remove/Install Weight on Wheels Swtiches                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.13.4.     3231 - Emergency Extension System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.13.4.1.    Operational Check                                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -

                                                                                 220
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 15
                                                    CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                    Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A15.13.5.      3240 - Wheel Braking System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.13.5.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A15.13.6.      3250 - Nose Wheel Steering (NWS) System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.13.6.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -         -        -
A15.13.6.2.    Operational Check                                    *                                                                          -         -         -        -
A15.13.6.3.    Troubleshoot System                                            *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.13.6.4.    Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.13.6.5.    Remove/Install NWS Range Switch
A15.13.7.      3260 - Landing Gear Position & Warning System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.13.7.1.    Remove/Install External Gear Down Light                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A15.13.7.2.    Remove/Install MLG Uplock/Downlock Limit             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               Switches
A15.13.7.3.    Remove/Install NLG Uplock/Downlock Limit             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               Switches
A15.14.        33 - LIGHTING
A15.14.1.      300 - Lighting System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.14.1.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -         -        -
A15.14.1.2.    Operational Check                                    *                                                                          -         -         -        -
A15.14.1.3.    Troubleshoot System                                            *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.14.1.4.    Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.14.2.      3310 - Flight Compartment Lighting
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.14.2.1.    Remove/Install Flight Compartment Lighting System                                                                               -         -        -          -
               Components
A15.14.3.      3320 - Cabin Lighting
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.14.3.1.    Remove/Install Cabin Lighting System Components                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A15.14.4.      3340 - External Lighting
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.14.4.1.    Remove/Install External Lighting System Components                                                                              -         -        -          -
A15.14.5.      3350 - Emergency Lighting
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.14.5.1.    Troubleshoot System (EELS)                                     *                                                                -         -        -          -


A15.14.5.2.    Remove/Install EELS Control Unit                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.14.5.3.    Remove/Install Other Associated EELS Components                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A15.14.6.     3360 - Lighting Control


                                                                            221
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 15
                                                      CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                       Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                           5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.14.6.1.    Remove/Install Primary Lighting Control Unit            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.14.6.2.    Remove/Install Secondary Lighting Control Unit          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.14.6.3.    Remove/Install Associated Lighting Control Components   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.15.        35 - OXYGEN/NITROGEN
A15.15.1.      3510 - Crew System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS), 15X-1-1
A15.15.1.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                           -         -         -        -
A15.15.1.2.    Perform Operational and Leak Check                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.15.1.3.    Inspect System Components                                         *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.15.1.4.    Remove/Install Other System Components                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.15.1.5.    Troubleshoot System                                               *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.15.2.     3511 - O2 Distribution System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS), 15X-1-1
A15.15.2.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.15.2.2.    Perform Operational and Leak Check                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.15.2.3.    Inspect System Components                                         *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.15.2.4.    Remove/Install Other System Components                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A15.15.2.5.    Troubleshooting System                                            *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.15.3.      3540 - O2 / N2 Generating System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS), 15X-1-1
A15.15.3.1.    Remove/Install Concentrator Assembly                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.15.3.2.    Remove/Install Outlet Filters                           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.15.3.3.    Troubleshoot System                                               *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.15.4.      3541 - Emergency Oxygen System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS), TR: 00-25-172
A15.15.4.1.    Perform Operational and Leak Check                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A15.15.4.2.    Inspect System Components                                         *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.15.4.3.    Remove/Install Emergency O2 Bottle                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.15.4.4.    Service/Deservice Emergency O2 Bottle                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A15.15.4.5.    Troubleshoot System                                               *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.15.5.      3550 - N2 Distribution System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.15.5.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A15.15.5.2.    Perform Operational and Leak Check                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A15.15.5.3.    Inspect System Components                                         *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.15.5.4.    Remove/Install Other Associated N2 Distribution         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               Components
A15.15.5.5.    Troubleshoot System                                               *                                                                -         -        -          -


                                                                               222
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 15
                                                      CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                       Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                           5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A15.16.        42 - AIRCRAFT INTEGRATED WIRING
A15.16.1.      4210 - Integrated Wiring System (IWS) Harness
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.16.1.1.    Perform Continuity Checks                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.16.1.2.    Inspect/Repair Assoicated IWS Harnesses                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A15.16.1.3.    Remove/Install Associated IWS Harnesses                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A15.16.1.4.    Troubleshoot IWS Harness Malfunctions                             *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.16.2.      4220 - Conventional Wire Harness
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.16.2.1.    Perform Continuity Checks                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.16.2.2.    Inspect/Repair Conventional Wire Harnesses                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A15.16.2.3.    Remove/Install Conventional Wire Harnesses                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A15.16.2.4.    Troubleshoot Conventional Wire Harness Malfunctions               *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.16.3.      4270 - Wire Integration Assembly (WIA)
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.16.3.1.    Perform Integrity Checks                                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.16.3.2.    Inspect/Repair WIAs                                               *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.16.3.3.    Remove/Install Miscellaneous WIAs                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.16.3.4.    Troubleshoot Wire Integration Assembly Malfunctions               *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.17.        46 - SYSTEM INTEGRATION AND DISPLAY
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.17.1.      System Integration and Display System Theory of                                                                                    -         -        -          -
               Operation
A15.17.2.      Operate Cockpit Management System                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.17.3.     Utilize Program Loader Cartridge - Upload/Retrieve       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
              Maint./VSLED Data
A15.17.4.      Utilize Aircraft Maintenance Event Ground Station       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               (AMEGS)
A15.17.5.      Analyze AMEGS Data                                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.18.        53 - FUSELAGE
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.18.1.      Remove/Install Fuselage Panels                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A15.18.2.      Remove/Install Cabin Floor Panels                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A15.19.        54 - NACELLES
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.19.1.      Remove/Install Nacelle Structures and Panels                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A15.20.        55 - EMPENNAGE
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.20.1.      Remove/Install Empennage Panels                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A15.21.       56 - WINDOWS AND CANOPIES
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS), 11A-1-33
A15.21.1.      Remove/Install Pilot's & Copilot's Pyrotechnic Egress   *                                                                          -         -        -          -

                                                                               223
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 15
                                                       CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                          Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                  A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                              5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
               Components
A15.21.2.      Remove/Install Cabin Pyrotechnic Egress Components         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.22.        57 - WING / NACELLE
A15.22.1.      5700 - Wing/Nacelle General
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.22.1.1.    Remove/Install Wing Panels                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A15.22.2.      5780 - Wing Stow Control
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.22.2.1.         Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A15.22.2.2.    Trace Signal/Data Flow                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.22.2.3.    Inspect System Components                                            *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.22.2.4.    Troubleshoot System                                                  *
A15.22.2.5.    Operational Check                                          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.22.2.6.    Remove/Install Azimuth Switches                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A15.22.2.7.    Remove/Install Blade Fold Wing Stow Control Panel                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A15.23.        62 - PROPROTOR SYSTEM
A15.23.1.     6221/6222 - Hub, Fairing and Pendulum Dampener
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.23.1.1.    Remove/Install Proprotor Spinner Cover and Panels                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A15.23.1.2.    Remove/Install Blade/Grip Fairings                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A15.23.1.3.    Remove/Install Central De-Ice Distributor (CDD)            *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.23.2.      6240 - Electrical Proprotor Control System Interface
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.23.2.1.    Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.23.2.2.    Remove/Install LH/RH Slip Ring Standpipe Assy              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.23.2.3.    Troubleshoot Proprotor Control System & Interface System             *                                                                -         -        -          -
               Malfunctions
A15.24.        63 - DRIVE SYSTEM
A15.24.1.      6321 thru 6325 - Gearboxes Assemblies
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.24.1.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A15.24.1.2.    Remove/Install Oil Temperature/Level                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
               Sws/Transducers
A15.24.1.3.    Remove/Install Miscellaneous Electrical Components         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.24.1.4.    Troubleshoot System                                                  *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.24.2.      6321/6322 - Proprotor Gearbox (PRGB)
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.24.2.1.    Remove/Install/Inspect Debris                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               Sensors & Magnetic Plugs
A15.24.3.      6323/6324 - Tilt-Axis Gearbox (TAGB)
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)

                                                                                  224
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 15
                                                      CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                 Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A15.24.3.1.    Remove/Install/Inspect Debris Sensor              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.24.4.      6325 - Mid-Wing Gearbox (MWGB) & Rotor Brake
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.24.4.1.    Remove/Install/Inspect Debris Sensor              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.24.4.2.    Remove/Install Proximity Sensors                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.25.        66 - BLADE FOLD

A15.25.1.      6600 - Blade Fold System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.25.1.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A15.25.1.2.    Operational Checkout                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.25.1.3.    Inspect System Components                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.25.1.4.    Troubleshoot System                                         *                                                                -         -        -          -
A15.25.1.5.    Remove/Install LH/RH Bladefold Control Units      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.25.1.6.    Remove/Install Green/White/Red Blade              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               LH/RH LE Proximity Sensors
A15.25.1.7.    Remove/Install Green/White/Red Blade              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               LH/RH TE Proximity Sensors
A15.25.1.8.    Remove/Install Green/White Blade                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               LH/RH Fold Sensors
A15.25.1.9.    Remove/Install Red Blade LH/RH Lock Pin Sensors   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.25.1.10.   Remove/Install Green/White/Red                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               LH/RH LE Shear Pin Monitors
A15.25.1.11.   Remove/Install Green/White/Red                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               LH/RH TE Shear Pin Monitors
A15.25.1.12.   Remove/Install Other Associated BFCS              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               Electrical Components
A15.26.        71 - AE1107C ENGINE
A15.26.1.      7180 - Engine Air Particle Separator (EAPS)
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.26.1.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -         -        -
A15.26.1.2.    Operational Check                                 *                                                                          -         -         -        -
A15.26.1.3.    Troubleshoot System                                         *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.26.1.4.    Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                -         -         -        -
A15.26.1.5.    Remove/Install EAPS Door                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A15.26.1.6.    Remove/Install EAPS Actuator                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A15.27.        74 - ENGINE IGNITION
A15.27.1.      7411 - Low Voltage Power Supply
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.27.1.1.    Troubleshoot Permenant Magnetic Alternator                  *                                                                -         -        -          -
               (PMA) Malfunctions

                                                                         225
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 15
                                                     CV-22TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                               Tasks                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A15.27.2.     7413 - Ignition Exciters
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.27.2.1.    Troubleshoot Ignition Exciter Malfunctions                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A15.28.        77 - ENGINE INDICATING
A15.28.1.     7750 - Engine Monitoring System
               TR: 1V-22(C)B-2DB-1 (IETMS)
A15.28.1.1.    Troubleshoot Engine Monitoring System Harness             *                                                                -         -        -          -
               Malfunctions
A15.28.1.2.    Remove/Install Engine Monitoring System         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               (EMS) Harness (Green)
A15.28.1.3.    Remove/Install Engine Monitoring System         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               (EMS) Harness (Yellow)
A15.28.1.4.    Remove/Install Engine Monitoring System         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
               (EMS) Harness (Blue)




                                                                       226
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 15
                                                       B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                            2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                            Tasks                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                       Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                  A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                                              5         7    Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                                             Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
ATTACHMENT 16
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 16 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain B-52 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Functional Area Manager @ HQ AFGSC/A4VA,
965 Twining Drive Bldg 5341 Suite 102, Barksdale AFB, IL 71110-2415; or call DSN 781-8810. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the
AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A16.1.         AC POWER SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-52H-2-12 SERIES
A16.1.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.1.2.       Operational Check System                                       *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.3.       Troubleshoot System                                                      *                                                -       -       -         -
A16.1.4.       Inspect System Components                                                *                                                -       -       -         -
A16.1.5.       Operate Load Bank                                              *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.6.       Adjust Constant Speed Drive (CSD) Basic Speeds                 *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.1.     Remove Components
A16.1.7.2.     Generator Breaker                                                                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.3.     Generator                                                      *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.4.     Bus-Tie Circuit Breaker                                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.5.     Current Transformer                                                                                                       -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.6.     Survivability/Vulnerability (S/V) Box                                                                                     -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.7.     Frequency Reference Unit (FRU)                                 *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.8.     Frequency & Load Controller (F&LC)                             *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.9.     Generator Control Panel (GCP)                                  *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.10.    Voltage Regulator                                              *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.11.    Relays                                                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.12.    Circuit Breakers                                                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.7.13.    Trip Signal Indicator                                                                                                     -       -       -         -
A16.1.8.       Install Components
A16.1.8.1.     Generator Breaker                                                                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.1.8.2.     Generator                                                      *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.8.3.     Bus-Tie Circuit Breaker                                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.1.8.4.     Current Transformer                                                                                                       -       -       -         -
A16.1.8.5.     Survivability/Vulnerability (S/V) Box                                                                                     -       -       -         -
A16.1.8.6.     Frequency Reference Unit (FRU)                                 *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.8.7.     Frequency & Load Controller (F&LC)                             *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.1.8.8.     Generator Control Panel (GCP)                                  *                                                          -       -       -         -


                                                                                  227
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 16
                                                    B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                               Tasks                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                         3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                                 5         7   Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                               Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
A16.1.8.9.    Voltage Regulator                                  *                                                          -       -        -         -
A16.1.8.10.   Relays                                                                                                       -       -       -         -
A16.1.8.11.   Circuit Breakers                                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.1.8.12.   Trip Signal Indicators                                                                                       -       -       -         -
A16.2.        DC POWER SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-12 SERIES
A16.2.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                     -       -       -         -
A16.2.2.      Operational Check System                           *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.2.3.      Interrupted DC (IDC) Power Supply Checkout                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.2.4.      Non-Interrupted DC (NDC) Power Supply Checkout                                                               -       -       -         -
A16.2.5.      Troubleshoot System                                          *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.2.6.      Inspect System Components                                    *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.2.7.      Use Transformer-Rectifier Load Bank                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.2.8.      Remove Components
A16.2.8.1.    Aircraft Battery                                   *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.2.8.2.    Transformer Rectifier                                                                                        -       -       -         -
A16.2.8.3.    Battery Charger                                                                                              -       -       -         -
A16.2.8.4.    Circuit Breakers                                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.2.8.5.    Non-Interrupted DC (NDC) Power Supply                                                                        -       -       -         -
A16.2.8.6.    Blocking Diode                                                                                               -       -       -         -
A16.2.9.      Install Components
A16.2.9.1.    Aircraft Battery                                   *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.2.9.2.    Transformer Rectifier                                                                                        -       -       -         -
A16.2.9.3.    Battery Charger                                                                                              -       -       -         -
A16.2.9.4.    Circuit Breakers                                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.2.9.5.    Non-Interrupted DC (NDC) Power Supply                                                                        -       -       -         -
A16.2.9.6.    Blocking Diode                                                                                               -       -       -         -
A16.3.        EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
              TR: Applicable 1B-52H-2-12 SERIES
A16.3.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                     -       -       -         -
A16.3.2.      Operational Check System                           *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.3.3.      Troubleshoot System                                          *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.3.4.      Inspect System Components                                    *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.3.5.      Remove Components
A16.3.5.1.    Contactor                                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.3.5.2.    Receptacle                                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.3.5.3.    Relays                                                                                                       -       -       -         -


                                                                     228
                                                                                                                                  Attachment 16
                                               B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                        Tasks                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                  3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                          5         7   Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                        Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
A16.3.6.      Install Components
A16.3.6.1.    Contactor                                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.3.6.2.    Receptacle                                                                                            -       -       -         -
A16.3.6.3.    Relays                                                                                                -       -       -         -
A16.4.        LIGHTING SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-12 SERIES
A16.4.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                              -       -       -         -
A16.4.2.      Troubleshoot Systems                                  *
A16.4.3.      Inspect System Components                             *
A16.4.4.      Operational Check
A16.4.4.1.    External                                    *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.4.4.2.    Internal                                    *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.4.4.3.    Emergency                                   *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.4.4.5.    URASSI                                      *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.      Remove Components
A16.4.5.1.    Control Panel                                                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.2.    Control Box                                                                                           -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.3.    Navigation Flasher                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.4.    Exterior Transformer                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.5.    Variable Transformer Control                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.6.    Dimmer                                                                                                -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.7.    Light Assembly                                                                                        -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.8.    Flasher Assembly                                                                                      -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.9.    Navigation/Formation Light                                                                            -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.10.   Anti Collision Light                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.11.   Landing Light                                                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.12.   Taxi Light                                                                                            -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.13.   Terrain Collision Light                                                                               -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.14.   URASSI/Slipway Light                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.4.5.15.   Area Light                                                                                            -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.      Install Components
A16.4.6.1.    Control Panel                                                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.2.    Control Box                                                                                           -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.3.    Navigation Flasher                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.4.    Exterior Transformer                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.5.    Variable Transformer Control                                                                          -       -       -         -



                                                              229
                                                                                                                           Attachment 16
                                               B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                        Tasks                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                  3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                          5         7   Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                        Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
A16.4.6.6.    Dimmer                                                                                                 -       -        -         -
A16.4.6.7.    Light Assembly                                                                                        -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.8.    Flasher Assembly                                                                                      -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.9.    Navigation/Formation Light                                                                            -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.10.   Anti Collision Light                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.11.   Landing Light                                                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.12.   Taxi Light                                                                                            -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.13.   Terrain Collision Light                                                                               -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.14.   URASSI/Slipway Light                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.4.6.15.   Area Light                                                                                            -       -       -         -
A16.5.        LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-10 SERIES
A16.5.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                              -       -       -         -
A16.5.2.      Operational Check System                    *
A16.5.3.      Troubleshoot System                                   *
A16.5.4.      Inspect System Components                             *
A16.5.5.      Remove Components
A16.5.5.1.    Control Switches                            *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.5.5.2.    Warning Horn                                *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.5.5.3.    Position Indicator                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.5.5.4.    Tip Gear Not-in-Trail Switch                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.5.5.5.    Tip Gear Indicator Switch
A16.5.6.      Install Components
A16.5.6.1.    Control Switches                            *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.5.6.2.    Warning Horning                             *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.5.6.3.    Position Indicator                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.5.6.4.    Tip Gear Not-in-Trail Switch                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.5.6.5.    Tip Gear Indicator Switch
A16.6.        ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-10 SERIES
A16.6.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                              -       -       -         -
A16.6.2.      Operational Check System                    *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.6.3.      Troubleshoot System                                   *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.6.4.      Inspect System Components                             *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.6.5.      Remove Components
A16.6.5.1.    Anti-Skid Detector                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.6.5.2.    Anti-Skid Shield                                                                                      -       -       -         -


                                                              230
                                                                                                                           Attachment 16
                                                    B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                             Tasks                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                       3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                               5         7   Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                             Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
A16.6.6.      Install Components
A16.6.6.1.    Anti-Skid Detector                               *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.6.6.2.    Anti-Skid Shield                                                                                           -       -       -         -
A16.7.        PRIMARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-4 SERIES
A16.7.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.7.2.      Operational Check Trim Indication System         *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.7.3.      Troubleshoot Trim Indication System                        *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.7.4.      Inspect Trim Indication System Components                  *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.7.5.      Remove Components
A16.7.5.1.    Stab Trim Control Switch                                                                                   -       -       -        -
A16.7.6.      Install Components
A16.7.6.1.    Stab Trim Control Switch                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.8.        SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-4 SERIES
A16.8.1.      Flaps
A16.8.1.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.8.1.2.    Operational Check System                         *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.8.1.3.    Troubleshoot System                                        *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.8.1.4.    Inspect System Components                                  *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.8.2.      Speed Brakes
A16.8.2.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.8.2.2.    Operational Check System                         *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.8.2.3.    Troubleshoot System                                        *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.8.2.4.    Inspect System Components                                  *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.9.        FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-7 SERIES
A16.9.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.9.2.      Operational Check System                         *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.9.3.      Troubleshoot System                                        *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.9.4.      Inspect System Components                                  *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.9.5.      Remove Components
A16.9.5.1.    Fire Handle                                                                                                -       -       -         -
A16.9.5.2.    Fire Detectors                                   *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.9.6.      Install Components
A16.9.6.1.    Fire Handle                                                                                                -       -       -         -
A16.9.6.2.    Fire Detectors                                   *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.10.       TAKEOFF WARNING SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-7 SERIES

                                                                   231
                                                                                                                                Attachment 16
                                                  B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                           Tasks                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                     Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                     3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                             5         7   Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                           Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
A16.10.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                  -       -        -         -
A16.10.2.     Operational Check System                       *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.10.3.     Troubleshoot System                                      *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.10.4.     Inspect System Components                                *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.10.5.     Install Components                                                                                       -       -       -         -
A16.10.5.1.   Throttle Limit Switches                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.10.6.     Remove Components
A16.10.6.1.   Throttle Limit Switches                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.11.       MASTER/CENTRAL CAUTION SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-12 SERIES
A16.11.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                 -       -       -         -
A16.11.2.     Master Caution Operational Check               *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.11.3.     Central Caution Operational Check              *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.11.4.     Troubleshoot System                                      *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.11.5.     Inspect System Components                                *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.11.6.     Remove Components
A16.11.6.1.   Central Caution Panel                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.11.6.2.   Master Caution Light Controller                *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.11.6.3.   Flasher                                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.11.6.4.   Light Assembly
A16.11.7.     Install Components
A16.11.7.1.   Central Caution Panel                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.11.7.2.   Master Caution Light Controller                *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.11.7.3.   Relays                                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.11.7.4.   Light Assembly                                                                                           -       -       -         -
A16.12.       FUEL WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-14 SERIES
A16.12.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                 -       -       -         -
A16.12.2.     Operational Check System                       *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.12.3.     Troubleshoot System                                      *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.12.4.     Inspect System Components                                *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.12.5.     Boost Pump Current Check                                                                                 -       -       -         -
A16.12.6.     Remove Components
A16.12.6.1.   Fuel Management Panel                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.12.6.2.   Fuel Management Switch                         *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.12.6.3.   Fuel Flow Flasher                                                                                        -       -       -         -
A16.12.7.     Install Components


                                                                 232
                                                                                                                              Attachment 16
                                                     B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                              Tasks                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                   A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                        3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                                5         7   Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                              Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
A16.12.7.1.   Fuel Management Panel                                                                                        -       -        -         -
A16.12.7.2.   Fuel Management Switch                            *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.12.7.3.   Fuel Flow Flasher                                                                                           -       -       -         -
A16.13.       START AND IGNITION SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-13 SERIES
A16.13.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.13.2.     Cartridge Starter Circuit Continuity Check                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.13.3.     Troubleshoot System                                         *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.13.4.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.14.       WINDSHIELD WIPER SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-13 SERIES
A16.14.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.14.2.     Operational Check System                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.14.3.     Troubleshoot System                                         *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.14.4.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.15.       NESA ANTI-ICING SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-13 SERIES
A16.15.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.15.2.     Operational Check System                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.15.3.     Troubleshoot System                                         *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.15.4.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.15.5.     Open/Close Nose Radome                            *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.15.6.     Remove Components
A16.15.6.1.   Transformer                                                                                                 -       -       -         -
A16.15.6.2.   Controller                                        *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.15.6.3.   Thermal Switch                                                                                              -       -       -         -
A16.15.7.     Install Components
A16.15.7.1.   Transformer                                                                                                 -       -       -         -
A16.15.7.2.   Controller                                        *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.15.7.3.   Thermal Switch                                                                                              -       -       -         -
A16.16.       BOMB DOOR SYSTEM
              TR: 1B-52H-2-13 SERIES
A16.16.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.16.2.     Operational Check System                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.16.3.     Troubleshoot System                                         *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.16.4.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.16.5.     Remove Components
A16.16.5.1.   Limit Switches                                    *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.16.6.     Install Components


                                                                    233
                                                                                                                                 Attachment 16
                                                    B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                             Tasks                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                       3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                               5         7   Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                             Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
A16.16.6.1.    Limit Switches                                  *                                                          -       -        -         -
A16.17.        THERMAL FLASH BLINDNESS PROTECTION
               SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-52H-2-13 SERIES
A16.17.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.17.2.      Operational Check System                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.17.3.      Troubleshoot System                                       *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.17.4.      Inspect System Components                                 *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.17.5.      Remove Components
A16.17.5.1.    Conditioner                                                                                               -       -       -         -
A16.17.6.      Install Components
A16.17.6.1.    Conditioner                                                                                               -       -       -         -
A16.18.        BLEED AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-52H-2-9 SERIES
A16.18.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.18.2.      Operational Check System                        *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.18.3.      Perform Leakage Checks                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.18.4.      Troubleshoot System                                       *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.18.5.      Inspect System Components                                 *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.18.6.      Hydrostatic Check Ducts                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.18.7.      Remove Components
A16.18.7.1.    Ducts                                           *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.18.7.2.    Bleed Air POD Valve                             *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.18.7.3.    Servo Pressure Regulator and Torque Motor                                                                 -       -       -         -
A16.18.7.4.    Engine Pre-Cooler                                                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.18.7.5.    Check Valves                                                                                              -       -       -         -
A16.18.7.6.    Body Crossover/Manifold Valve                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.18.7.7.    Temperature Controller                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.18.7.8.    Ejector Valve                                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.18.7.9.    Temperature Sensor                                                                                        -       -       -         -
A16.18.7.10.   Ram Air Modulation Valve                                                                                  -       -       -         -
A16.18.8.      Install Components
A16.18.8.1     Ducts                                           *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.18.8.2.    Bleed Air POD Valve                             *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.18.8.3.    Servo Pressure Regulator and Torque Motor                                                                 -       -       -         -
A16.18.8.4.    Engine Pre-Cooler                                                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.18.8.5.    Check Valves                                                                                              -       -       -         -
A16.18.8.6.    Body Crossover/Manifold Valve                                                                             -       -       -         -

                                                                   234
                                                                                                                                Attachment 16
                                               B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                        Tasks                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                  3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                          5         7   Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                        Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
A16.18.8.7.    Temperature Controller                                                                                -       -        -         -
A16.18.8.8.    Ejector Valve                                                                                        -       -       -         -
A16.18.8.9.    Temperature Sensor                         *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.18.8.10.   Ram Air Modulation Valve                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.19.        ENGINE ANTI ICE
               TR: 1B-52H-2-13 SERIES
A16.19.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.19.2.      Operational Check System                   *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.19.3.      Troubleshoot System                                  *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.19.4.      Inspect System Components                            *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.19.5.      Remove Components
A16.19.5.1.    Modulation/Shutoff Valve                   *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.19.5.2.    Temperature Sensor                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.19.5.3.    Control Box                                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.19.5.4.    Ducts                                                                                                -       -       -         -
A16.19.6.      Install Components
A16.19.6.1.    Modulation/Shutoff Valve                   *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.19.6.2.    Temperature Sensor                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.19.6.3.    Control Box                                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.19.6.4.    Ducts                                                                                                -       -       -         -
A16.20.        AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-52H-2-13 SERIES
A16.20.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.20.2.      Operational Check System                   *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.3.      Perform System Leakage checks              *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.4.      Troubleshoot System                                  *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.20.5.      Service Air Cycle Machine                  *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.6.      Inspect System Components                            *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.      Remove Components
A16.20.7.1.    Ducts                                     *                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.2.    Water Separator                            *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.3.    Water Separator Coalescer                  *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.4.    Regulating and Shut-Off Valve              *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.5.    Catalytic Filters                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.6.    Air Cycle Machine                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.7.    Temp Sensor                                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.8.    Anti-ice Valve                                                                                       -       -       -         -


                                                              235
                                                                                                                           Attachment 16
                                               B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                        Tasks                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                  Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                  3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                          5         7   Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                        Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
A16.20.7.9.    Ejector Valve                                                                                         -       -        -         -
A16.20.7.10.   Retractable Ram Scoop/Valve                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.11.   CTCS Controller                                                                                      -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.12.   ACS/MCS Controller                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.13.   Control Switch                                                                                       -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.14.   Re-Circulation Fan                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.20.7.15.   Secondary Heat Exchanger                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.      Install Components
A16.20.8.1.    Ducts                                      *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.2.    Water Separator                            *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.3.    Water Separator Coalescer                  *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.4.    Regulating and Shut-Off Valve              *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.5.    Catalytic Filters                                                                                    -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.6.    Air Cycle Machine                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.7.    Temp Sensor                                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.8.    Anti-Ice Valve                                                                                       -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.9.    Ejector Valve                                                                                        -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.10.   Retractable Ram Scoop/Valve                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.11.   CTCS Controller                                                                                      -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.12.   ACS/MCS Controller                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.13.   Control Switch                                                                                       -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.14.   Re-Circulation Fan                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.20.8.15.   Secondary Heat Exchanger                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.21.        PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-52H-2-13 SERIES
A16.21.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                             -       -       -         -
A16.21.2.      Operational Check System                   *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.21.3.      Troubleshoot System                                  *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.21.4.      Inspect System Components                            *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.21.5.      Remove Components
A16.21.5.1.    Outflow/Safety Valve                       *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.21.5.2.    Pneumatic Relay                                                                                      -       -       -         -
A16.21.5.3.    Pressure Regulator/Controller              *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.21.5.4.    Filters                                                                                              -       -       -         -
A16.21.5.5.    Dump Control Valve                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.21.6.      Install Components



                                                              236
                                                                                                                           Attachment 16
                                                    B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                     Tasks                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A       B        C        D        E        A       B             C
                                                                                                                               3 Level 5 Level       7 Level
                                                                       5         7   Tng     Tng Trainee Trainer Certifier                        (1)      (2)
                                                                                     Start Complete Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC
A16.21.6.1.    Outflow/Safety Valve                                    *                                                          -       -        -         -
A16.21.6.2.    Pneumatic Relay                                                                                                   -       -       -         -
A16.21.6.3.    Pressure Regulator/Controller                           *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.21.6.4.    Filters                                                                                                           -       -       -         -
A16.21.6.5.    Dump Control Valve                                                                                                -       -       -         -
A16.22.        LIQUID OXYGEN SYSTEM
               TR: AFOSH standards / TOs 15X1-1 / 42B5-1-2 / 42E1-
               1-1 / 1B-52H-2-13 SERIES
A16.22.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.22.2.      Operational Check System                                *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.3.      Perform System Leak Check                               *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.4.      Troubleshoot System                                               *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.22.5.      Inspect System Components                                         *                                               -       -       -         -
A16.22.6.      Drain System                                            *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.7.      Purge System                                            *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.8.      Service System                                          *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.9.      Procedures for Cleaning Components                      *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.10.     Remove Components
A16.22.10.1.   Oxygen Regulator                                        *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.10.2.   Converter                                               *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.10.3.   Build-up and Vent Valve                                 *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.10.4.   Filler Valve                                            *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.10.5.   Check Valve                                                                                                       -       -       -         -
A16.22.10.6.   Distribution Hoses                                                                                                -       -       -         -
A16.22.10.7.   Totalizer                                               *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.11.     Install Components
A16.22.11.1.   Oxygen Regulator                                        *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.11.2.   Converter                                               *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.11.3.   Build-up and Vent Valve                                 *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.11.4.   Filler Valve                                            *                                                         -       -       -         -
A16.22.11.5.   Check Valve                                                                                                       -       -       -         -
A16.22.11.6.   Distribution Tubes/Hoses                                                                                          -       -       -         -
A16.22.11.7.   Totalizer                                               *                                                         -       -       -         -




                                                                           237
                                                                                                                                        Attachment 16
     B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                238
                                     Attachment 16
                                                            C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                              2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                              Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 17
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, personnel assigned to maintain C-40 aircraft will perform the tasks and knowledge in attachment 17.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ AMC/ A4MMT,
402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; or call DSN 779-4787. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training
Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A17.1.            C-40 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
                  MAINTENANCE
                  TR: Applicable C-40 Technical Orders
A17.1.1.          Flight-line Safety Precautions/Security                     *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.1.2.          Major Structural Areas                                      *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.1.3.          Aircraft Danger Areas                                       *                                                                           -        -         -          -
17.1.1.4.         Aircraft Commercial Manuals Familiarization (PMA)           *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.1.5.          FOD Prevention/DOPP Programs                                *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.1.6.          Operate Airstairs                                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.          General Maintenance Tasks
                  TR: Applicable C-40 Technical Orders
A17.1.7.1.        Inspect/Operate Powered/Non-Powered Aerospace                                                                                           -        -         -          -
                  Ground Equipment (AGE)
A17.1.7.2.        Perform Safe for Maintenance Inspection                     *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.3.        Statically Ground Aircraft                                  *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.4.        Use Ground Safety Devices                                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.5.        Open/Close APU and Engine Cowlings                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.6.        Open/Close Maintenance Access Doors                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.7.        Remove and Reinstall Maintenance Access Panels                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.8.        Apply/Remove Hydraulic Power                                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.9.        Use Aircraft Interphone System                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.10.       Launch/Recover Aircraft                                                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.11.       Perform Refuel/Defuel Team Member Duties                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.12.       Perform Jacking Team Member Duties                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.13.       Periodic / Phase / Isochronal Work Groups                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.14.       Home Station Check (HSC)                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.15.       Special / Acceptance Inspections                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.16.       Remove and Reinstall Rack Mounted Components                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.17.       Remove and Reinstall Proximity Sensors                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.18.       Remove and Reinstall Transducers/Pressure Sensors                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A17.1.7.19.       Perform Leak Checks                                                                                                                     -        -         -          -



                                                                                      239
                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 17
                                                       C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                           2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                           Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                   A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                   3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                               5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A17.1.20.       APU
                TR: Applicable C-40 Technical Orders
A17.1.20.1.     Perform APU Run Operation                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A17.1.21.       Electrical System
                TR: Applicable C-40 Technical Orders
A17.1.21.1.     Apply/Remove Hangar Power                                  *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.1.21.2.     Apply/Remove Ground Power                                  *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.1.22.       Tow Aircraft
                TR: Applicable C-40 Technical Orders
A17.1.22.1.     Perform Wing/Tail Walker Duties                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A17.1.22.2.     Perform Brake Operator Duties                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A17.1.23.       Extended Operations (ETOPS)
                ETOPS Classroom & Applicable C-40 Technical
                Orders
A17.1.23.1.     Complete Initial Manufacturers ETOPS Certification Class                                                                               -        -         -          -
A17.1.23.2.     Explain ETOPS Concepts                                                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.1.23.3.     Perform Application of ETOPS Concepts                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A17.2.          C-40 AIR CONDITIONING AND PRESSURIZATION                   SYSTEM
                TR: APPLICABLE C-40 TO'S
A17.2.1.        Distribution and Equipment Cooling
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 21-20 through 21-28
A17.2.1.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A17.2.1.2.      System Operational Check                                   *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.1.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                       *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.1.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                     *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.2.1.5.      Inspect System Components                                            *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.2.1.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.2.1.6.1.    Ducting                                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A17.2.1.6.2.    Recirculation Fan                                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A17.2.1.6.3.    Recirculation Fan Check Valve                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A17.2.1.6.4.    Overboard Exhaust Valve                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A17.2.1.6.5.    Exhaust Fan Check Valve                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A17.2.2.        Pressurization Control System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 21-31
A17.2.2.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A17.2.2.2.      System Operational Check                                   *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.2.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                       *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.2.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                     *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.2.2.5.      Inspect System Components                                            *                                                                 -        -         -          -

                                                                                   240
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 17
                                                    C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A17.2.2.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.2.2.6.1.    Cabin Pressure Controller                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A17.2.2.6.2.    Outflow Valve Assembly                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A17.2.2.6.3.    Altitude Pressure Switch                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A17.2.3.        Door Area Heating System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 21-45
A17.2.3.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.2.3.2.      System Operational Check                        *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.3.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.3.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.2.3.5.      Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.2.3.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.2.3.6.1.    Door Area Heaters                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.3.6.1.    Emergency Escape Door Heater Blankets                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.        Pack Flow and Control and Pack Cooling System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 21-51
A17.2.4.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.2.      System Operational Check                        *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.5.      Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.2.4.6.1.    Water Seperator                                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.6.2.    Air Cycle Machine                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.6.3.    Flow Control Shutoff Valve                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.6.4.    Low Limit Controller                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.6.5.    Ram Air Inlet Controller                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A17.2.4.6.6.    Ram Air Inlet Actuator                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A17.2.5.        Zone Temperature Control and Indication
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 21-61
A17.2.5.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.2.5.2.      System Operational Check                        *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.5.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.2.5.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.2.5.5.      Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.2.5.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.2.5.6.1.    Cabin Temperature Controller                                                                                                -        -         -          -


                                                                        241
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 17
                                                     C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B               C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A17.2.5.6.2.    Air Mix Valve                                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A17.2.5.6.3.    Air Conditioning Accessory Unit                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A17.2.5.6.4.    Temperature Control Valve                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.2.5.6.5.    Primary Heat Exchanger and Plenum/Diffuser Assembly                                                                               -        -         -          -
A17.2.5.6.6.    Secondary Heat Exchanger and Plenum/Diffuser                                                                                      -        -         -          -
                Assembly
A17.2.5.6.7.    Ozone Converter                                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A17.3.          C-40C ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEMS
                TR: APPLICABLE C-40 TO'S
A17.3.1.        AC Generation Drive System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 24-11
A17.3.1.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                              -         -          -         -
A17.3.1.2.      System Operational Check                              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A17.3.1.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                  *                                                                          -         -          -         -
A17.3.1.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                -         -          -         -
A17.3.1.5.      Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                -         -          -         -
A17.3.1.6.      Remove and Reinstall System Components
A17.3.1.6.1.    Integrated Drive Generator                                                                                                       -         -          -         -
A17.3.2.        AC Generation System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 24-21

A17.3.2.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A17.3.2.2.      System Operational Check                              *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.3.2.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                  *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A17.3.2.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.3.2.5.      Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                -         -         -         -
A17.3.2.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.3.2.6.1.    Power Distribution Panel                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A17.3.2.6.2.    Rigid Bus Assembly                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A17.3.2.6.3.    Generator, Bus Tie and Auxillary Power Breakers                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A17.3.2.6.4.    AC System Generator and Apu Module                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A17.3.2.6.5.    Generator Drive and Standby Power Module                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A17.3.2.6.6.    Electrical Meters, Battery and Galley Power Module                                                                                -        -         -          -
A17.3.2.6.7.    Current Transformer                                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A17.3.2.6.8.    Frequency Converter                                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A17.3.3.        DC Generation System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 24-31
A17.3.3.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A17.3.3.2.      System Operational Check                                                                                                         -         -         -         -

                                                                              242
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 17
                                                    C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                             Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A17.3.3.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A17.3.3.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.3.3.5.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A17.3.3.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.3.3.6.1.    Battery                                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A17.3.3.6.2.    Battery Charger                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A17.3.3.6.3.    Remote Control Circuit Breakers                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A17.3.4.        Standby Power System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 24-34
A17.3.4.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A17.3.4.2.      System Operational Check                     *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.3.4.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.3.4.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.3.4.5.      Inspect System Components                              *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.3.4.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.3.4.6.1.    Standby Power Control Unit                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A17.3.4.6.2.    Static Inverter                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A17.4.          C-40C FIRE PROTECTION
                TR: APPLICABLE C-40 TO'S
A17.4.1.        Engine Fire Detection
A17.4.1.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A17.4.1.2.      System Operational Check                     *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.1.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.1.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.1.5.      Inspect System Components                              *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.1.6.      Remove and Reinstall System Components
A17.4.1.6.1.    Engine and APU Fire Control Panel                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A17.4.1.6.2.    Cargo Fire Control Panel                                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.1.6.3.    Engine Fire Detector Element                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A17.4.1.6.4.    Engine Fire Detector Assembly                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A17.4.1.6.5.    Engine Fire Detection Harnesses                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A17.4.2.        Lavatory Smoke Detection
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 26-14
A17.4.2.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A17.4.2.2.      System Operational Check                     *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.2.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.2.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.2.5.      Inspect System Components                              *                                                                 -        -         -          -


                                                                     243
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 17
                                                    C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A17.4.2.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.4.2.6.1.    Lavatory Smoke Detectors                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.4.3.        APU Fire Detection
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 26-15
A17.4.3.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A17.4.3.2.      System Operational Check                             *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.3.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                 *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.3.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                               *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.3.5.      Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.3.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.4.3.6.1.    APU Overheat Detector Element                                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A17.4.3.6.2.    APU Overheat Detector Assembly                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A17.4.3.6.3.    APU Fire Warning Horn                                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A17.4.4.        Cargo Bay Smoke Detection
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 26-16
A17.4.4.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A17.4.4.2.      System Operational Check                             *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.4.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                 *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.4.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                               *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.4.5.      Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.4.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.4.4.6.1.    Cargo Bay Smoke Detectors                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A17.4.4.6.2.    Cargo Electronic Unit                                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A17.4.5         Wheel Well, Wing and Lower AFT Body Overheat
                Detection System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 26-16
A17.4.5.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A17.4.5.2.      System Operational Check                             *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.5.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                 *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.5.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                               *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.5.5.      Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.5.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.4.5.6.1.    Wing, Wheel Well and Lower AFT Body Overheat                                                                                     -        -         -          -
                Detection Elements
A17.4.6.        Engine, APU, Lavatory and Cargo Fire Extinguishing
                Bottle
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 26-20 through 26-24
A17.4.6.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A17.4.6.2.      System Operational Check                             *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.6.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                 *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.4.6.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                               *                                                                -         -         -         -


                                                                             244
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 17
                                                    C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                               Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A17.4.6.5.      Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.6.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.4.6.6.1.    Fire Extinguishing Bottle                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A17.4.6.6.2.    Fire Extinguishing Bottle Squib                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A17.4.6.6.3.    APU Remote Control Panel                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A17.4.6.6.4.    Cargo Compartment Fire Extinguisher Bottle                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.4.6.6.5.    Extinguisher Monitor Unit                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A17.4.6.6.6.    Lavatory Waste Compartment Fire Exinguishing                                                                               -        -         -          -
                Bottle
A17.5.          C-40C FLIGHT CONTROLS
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 27-41, 27-62
A17.5.1.        Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A17.5.2.        System Operational Check                       *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.5.3.        Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A17.5.4.        Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.5.5.        Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.5.6.        Remove and Install System Components
A17.5.6.1.      Stabilizer Trim Motor                                                                                                      -        -         -          -
A17.5.6.2.      Stabilizer Trim Switches                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A17.5.6.3.      Auto Speed Brake Actuator                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A17.6.          C-40C FUEL CONTROL AND WARNING SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable C-40 TO's
A17.6.1.        Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A17.6.2.        System Operational Check                       *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.6.3.        Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.6.4.        Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.6.5.        Inspect System Components                                *                                                                -         -         -         -
A17.6.6.        Remove and Install System Components
A17.6.6.1.      Emergency Fuel Shutoff Battery                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A17.6.6.2.      Fuel System Module P5-2                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A17.7.          C-40C ICE AND RAIN PROTECTION
                TR: APPLICABLE C-40 TO'S
A17.7.1.        Wing Thermal Anti-Icing
A17.7.1.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A17.7.1.2.      System Operational Check                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A17.7.1.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.7.1.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.7.1.5.      Inspect System Components                                *                                                                -         -         -         -
A17.7.1.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.7.1.6.1.    Wing Thermal Anti-Ice Valve                                                                                                -        -         -          -

                                                                       245
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 17
                                                      C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A17.7.1.6.2.    Ground Wing Thermal Anti-Icing Solenoid Valve                                                                               -        -         -          -
A17.7.1.6.3.    Wing Anti-Ice Telescoping Duct                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A17.7.1.6.4.    Engine and Wing Anti-Ice Panel                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A17.7.2.        Control Cabin Window Anti-Icing System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 30-41
A17.7.2.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A17.7.2.2.      System Operational Check                        *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.7.2.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.7.2.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                -         -         -         -
A17.7.2.5.      Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.7.2.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.7.2.6.1.    Window Thermal Switch                                                                                                       -        -         -
A17.7.2.6.2.    Window/Pitot Heat Module P5-9                                                                                               -        -         -
A17.8.          C-40C LANDING GEAR
                TR: APPLICABLE C-40 TO'S
A17.8.1.        Air/Ground System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 32-09
A17.8.1.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.8.1.2.      System Operational Check                        *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.8.1.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A17.8.1.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.8.1.5.      Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                -         -         -         -
A17.8.1.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.8.1.6.1.    Main Landing Gear Air/Ground Sensor                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.8.1.6.2.    Nose Landing Gear Air/Ground Sensor                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A17.8.1.6.3.    Proximity Switch Electronics Unit (PSEU)                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A17.8.2.        Landing Gear Control System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 32-31
A17.8.2.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.8.2.2.      System Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A17.8.2.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A17.8.2.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                            -        -         -          -
A17.8.2.5.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A17.8.2.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.8.2.6.1.    Landing Gear Control Lever Module                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.8.2.6.2.    Landing Gear Control Lever Lock Solenoid                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A17.8.3.        Anti-Skid/Autobrake System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 32-42
A17.8.3.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.8.3.2.      System Operational Check                                                                                                    -        -         -          -


                                                                        246
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 17
                                                        C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A17.8.3.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A17.8.3.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A17.8.3.5.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A17.8.3.6.      Remove and Install System Components
A17.8.3.6.1.    Wheel Anti-Skid Wheel Speed Transducer                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A17.8.3.6.2.    Autobrake Selector Switch                                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A17.8.4.        Landing Gear Position Indicating and Warning System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 32-61
A17.8.4.1.      Theory of Operation                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A17.8.4.2.      System Operational Check                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.8.4.3.      Isolate Malfunctions                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.8.4.4.      Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.8.4.5.      Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.9.          C-40C LIGHTS
                TR: AMM I AND AMM II 32 SERIES
A17.9.1.        Theory of Operation                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A17.9.2.        System Operational Check                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.9.3.        Isolate Malfunctions                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.9.4.        Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.9.5.        Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.9.6.        Remove and Install System Components
A17.9.6.1.      Captain/First Officer Lighting Module                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A17.9.6.2.      Master Caution and Warning System Annunciator                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A17.9.6.3.      Dimmer Control Unit                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A17.9.6.4.      Miscellaneous Light Assemblies                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A17.9.6.5.      Ballast                                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.9.6.6.      Fixed/Retractable Landing Lights                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A17.9.6.7.      Emergency Lights Power Supply/Battery Pack                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A17.10.         C-40C OXYGEN
                TR: APPLICABLE C-40 TO'S
A17.10.1.       Crew Oxygen
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 35-12
A17.10.1.1.     Theory of Operation                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.2.     System Operational Check                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.3.     Isolate Malfunctions                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.4.     Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.6.     Remove and Reinstall System Components
A17.10.1.6.1.   Crew Oxygen Cylinder                                                                                                              -        -         -          -


                                                                              247
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 17
                                                        C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                  Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A17.10.1.6.2.   Pressure Reducing Regulator/Transducer Assembly                                                                               -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.6.3.   Crew Pressure Oxygen Pressure Indicator                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.6.4.   Discharge Indicator Disc                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.6.5.   Remote Fill Panel Pressure Indicator                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.6.6.   Remote Fill Panel and Fill Valve                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.6.7.   Crew Oxygen Mask/Stowage Box                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A17.10.1.6.8.   Crew Oxygen Mask/Regulator                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A17.10.2        Passenger Oxygen System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 35-22
A17.10.2.1.     Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.10.2.2.     System Operational Check                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.10.2.3.     Isolate Malfunctions                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.10.2.4.     Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.10.2.5.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.10.2.6.     Remove and Install System Components
A17.10.2.6.1.   Oxygen Generator                                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A17.10.2.6.2.   Oxygen Mask Door Latch Actuator                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A17.10.2.6.3.   Passenger Oxygen Mask                                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A17.10.2.6.4.   Altitude Pressure Switch                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A17.11.         C-40C PNEUMATIC SYSTEM
                TR: APPLICABLE C-40 TO'S
A17.11.1.       Engine Bleed Air Distribution System
A17.11.1.1.     Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.11.1.2.     System Operational Check                          *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.11.1.3.     Isolate Malfunctions                              *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.11.1.4.     Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.11.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.11.1.6.     Remove and Install System Components
A17.11.1.6.1.   Bleed Air Check Valve (5th-Stage)                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A17.11.1.6.2.   Bleed Air Regulator                               *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.11.1.6.3.   Pressure Regulating and Shutoff Valve             *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.11.1.6.4.   High Stage Valve                                            *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.11.1.6.5.   High Stage Regulator                                        *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.11.2.       Bleed Air Precooler System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 36-12
A17.11.2.1.     Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.11.2.2.     System Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A17.11.2.3.     Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A17.11.2.4.     Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                              -         -        -          -

                                                                          248
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 17
                                                     C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                              Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A17.11.2.5.     Inspect System Components                                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.11.2.6.     Remove and Install System Components
A17.11.2.6.1.   Bleed Air Precooler                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A17.11.2.6.2.   Precooler Control Valve                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A17.11.3.       Pneumatic Manifold System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 36-13
A17.11.3.1.     Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A17.11.3.2.     System Operational Check                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.11.3.3      Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.11.3.4.     Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.11.3.5.     Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.11.3.6.     Remove and Install System Components
A17.11.3.6.1.   Bleed Air Isolation Valve                                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.11.3.6.2.   Bleed Air Ducts                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.11.4.       Pressure Indicating System
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 36-21
A17.11.4.1.     Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A17.11.4.2.     System Operational Check                      *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.11.4.3.     Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A17.11.4.4.     Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.11.4.5.     Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A17.11.4.6.     Remove and Install System Components
A17.11.4.6.1.   Dual Duct Pressure Indicator                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A17.12.         C-40C WATER/WASTE
                TR: AMM I AND AMM II 38 SERIES
A17.12.1.       Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A17.12.2.       System Operational Check                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.12.3.       Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.12.4.       Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.12.5.       Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.12.6.       Remove and Install System Components
A17.12.6.1.     Passenger Water Sterilization Unit                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A17.12.6.2.     Water Boiler                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.12.6.3.     Water Tank Air Compressor                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.12.6.4.     Flush Control Module                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.12.6.5.     Vacuum Blower                                           *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.13.         C-40C INERT GAS SYSTEM
                TR: APPLICABLE C-40 TO'S
A17.13.1.       Air Seperation Unit
A17.13.1.1.     Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -        -         -          -

                                                                      249
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 17
                                                     C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A17.13.1.2.     System Operational Check                              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A17.13.1.3.     Isolate Malfunctions                                  *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A17.13.1.4.     Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                -         -         -         -
A17.13.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                -         -         -         -
A17.13.1.6.     Remove and Install System Components
A17.13.1.6.1.   Air Seperation Module                                                                                                             -        -         -          -
A17.13.1.6.2.   High Flow Valve                                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A17.13.1.6.3.   Overtemperature Shutoff Valve                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A17.13.2.       Nitrogen Generation System (NGS) Control System
A17.13.2.1.     Theory of Operation                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A17.13.2.2.     System Operational Check                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.13.2.3.     Isolate Malfunctions                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.13.2.4.     Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.13.2.5.     Inspect System Components                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.13.2.6.     Remove and Install System Components
A17.13.2.6.1.   Nitrogen Generation System (NGS) Controller                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A17.13.2.6.2.   BITE Display Unit                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.13.2.6.3.   Operability Indicator                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A17.13.3.       Thermal Control Unit
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 47-32
A17.13.3.1.     Theory of Operation                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A17.13.3.2.     System Operational Check                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.13.3.3.     Isolate Malfunctions                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.13.3.4.     Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.13.3.5.     Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.13.3.6.     Remove and Install System Components
A17.13.3.6.1.   NGS Shutoff Valve                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.13.3.6.2.   Ozone Converter                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A17.13.3.6.3.   Heat Exchanger                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A17.13.3.6.4.   NGS Filter                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A17.13.3.6.5.   Ram Air Valve                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A17.13.4.       Indication Air Seperation Unit/Thermal Control Unit
                TR: AMM I and AMM II 47-42 and 47-43
A17.13.4.1.     Theory of Operation                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A17.13.4.2.     System Operational Check                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.13.4.3.     Isolate Malfunctions                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.13.4.4.     Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.13.4.5.     Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -

                                                                              250
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 17
                                                     C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                              Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A17.14.         C-40C START AND IGNITION

A17.14.1.       Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A17.14.2.       System Operational Check                      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A17.14.3.       Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A17.14.4.       Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                -         -         -         -
A17.14.5.       Inspect System Components                               *                                                                -         -         -         -
A17.14.6.       Remove and Install System Components
A17.14.6.1.     Start Power Unit (APU)                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A17.14.6.2.     Start Converter Unit (APU)                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A17.14.6.3.     Electronic Control Unit (APU)                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A17.14.6.4.     Electronic Engine Control (EEC)                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.15.         C-40C DOORS
                TR: AMM I AND AMM II 52 SERIES
A17.15.1.       Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A17.15.2.       System Operational Check                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.15.3.       Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A17.15.4.       Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.15.5.       Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A17.15.6.       Remove and Install System Components
A17.15.6.1.     Airstair Door Lockpin Actuator                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A17.15.6.2.     Airstair Motor                                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A17.15.6.3.     Airstair Door Actuator                                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A17.15.6.4.     Airstair Door Actuator Normal System Motor                                                                               -         -         -         -
A17.15.6.5.     Airstair Door Standby System Motor                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A17.15.6.6.     Miscellaneous Fuselage Door Warning System                                                                               -         -         -         -
                Switches




                                                                      251
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 17
     C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                252
                                     Attachment 17
                                               RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                             Tasks                                                                    Indicate
                                                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 18
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 18 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain RC/TC/OC/WC-135 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ AMC/A4MMT,
402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; or call DSN 576-4787. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training
Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A18.1.           AC POWER SYSTEM
                 TR: Applicable 1C-135-2-10
A18.1.1.         75/90 KVA
A18.1.1.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A18.1.1.2.        Operational Check System                                    *                                                                           -         -           -       -
A18.1.1.3.        Troubleshoot System                                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A18.1.1.4.       Inspect System Components                                              *                                                                -         -        -           -
A18.1.1.5.       Remove and Install Components
A18.1.1.5.1.      Generator Breaker                                           *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.1.1.5.2.      Integrated Drive Generator (IDG)                                      *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A18.1.1.5.3.      Bus Power Control Unit (BPCU)                               *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.1.1.5.4.      Bus-Tie Circuit Breaker                                     *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.1.1.5.5.      Generator Control Unit (GCU)                                *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.1.1.5.6.      Current Transformer                                         *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.1.1.5.7.      Frequency Referencing Auto- Paralleling Control Unit        *                                                                           -        -         -          -
                  (FRAPU)
A18.1.1.5.8.      Frequency and Load Controller (FLC)                         *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.1.1.5.9.     Other system components                                      *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A18.1.2.         40 KVA
A18.1.2.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A18.1.2.2.        Operational Check System                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A18.1.2.3.        Troubleshoot System                                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A18.1.2.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                               -         -        -           -
A18.1.2.5.       Remove and Install Components
A18.1.2.5.1.      Generator                                                                                                                               -        -         -          -
A18.1.2.5.2.      Generator Breaker                                                                                                                       -        -         -          -
A18.1.2.5.3.      Bus-Tie Circuit Breaker                                                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A18.1.2.5.4.      Generator Control Panel (GCP)                                                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.1.2.5.5.     Voltage Regulator                                                                                                                       -         -        -           -
A18.1.2.5.6.      Current Transformer                                                                                                                     -        -         -          -
A18.1.2.5.7.      Automatic Paralleling Unit                                                                                                              -        -         -          -


                                                                                      253
                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 18
                                           RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                    Indicate
                                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A18.1.2.5.8.    Frequency and Load Controller                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A18.1.2.5.9.    Other System Components                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A18.1.3.        120 KVA
A18.1.3.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A18.1.3.2.      Operational Check System                                                                                                        -         -        -           -
A18.1.3.3.      Troubleshoot System                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A18.1.3.4.      Inspect System Components                                                                                                       -         -        -           -
A18.1.3.5.      Remove and Install Components
A18.1.3.5.1.    Generator                                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A18.1.3.5.2.    Generator Breaker                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A18.1.3.5.3.    Bus-Tie Circuit Breaker                                                                                                          -        -         -          -
A18.1.3.5.4.    Generator Control Panel (GCP)                                                                                                   -         -        -           -
A18.1.3.5.5.    Voltage Regulator                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A18.1.3.5.6.    Frequency and Load Controller (FLC)                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A18.1.3.5.7.    Frequency Reference Unit (FRU)                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A18.1.3.5.8.    Current Transformer                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A18.1.3.5.9.    Other System Components                                                                                                         -         -            -       -
A18.2.          COPILOTS INSTRUMENT POWER SYSTEM                                                                                                -         -        -           -
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs / 8 series component TOs
A18.2.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A18.2.2.        Operational Check System                             *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.2.3.        Troubleshoot System                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A18.2.4.        Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                -         -        -           -
A18.2.5.        Remove and Install Components
A18.2.5.1.      Transformer Rectifier                                *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.2.5.2.      Other System Components                              *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.3.          DC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs / 8 series
                component TOs
A18.3.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -        -         -          -
A18.3.2.        Operational Check                                    *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.3.3.        Troubleshoot System                                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A18.3.4.        Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A18.3.5.        Remove and Install components
A18.3.5.1.      Transformer Rectifier                                *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.3.5.2.      Battery Charger                                      *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.3.5.3.      Aircraft Battery                                                                                                                 -        -         -          -
A18.3.5.4.      Other System Components                                        *                                                                 -        -         -          -

                                                                             254
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 18
                                           RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                         Tasks                                                                    Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A        B          C          D           E          A          B                   C
                                                                                                                                  3 Level    5 Level         7 Level
                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)         (2)
                                                              5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      CDC       Course     CDC
A18.4.          APU POWER SYSTEM
                TR: 1C-135-2-16
A18.4.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -       -           -
A18.4.2.        Operational Check                                                                                                     -            -       -           -
A18.4.3.        Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -            -       -           -
A18.4.4.        Inspect                                                                                                              -          -         -            -
A18.4.5.        Remove and Install Components
A18.4.5.1.      Generator                                                                                                             -            -       -           -
A18.4.5.2.      Generator Control Unit                                                                                                -            -       -           -
A18.4.5.3.      Line Contactor                                                                                                        -            -       -           -
A18.4.5.4.      Other System Components                                                                                                  -          -          -       -
A18.5.          EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.5.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                              -            -       -           -
A18.5.2.        Operational Check System                  *                                                                           -            -       -           -
A18.5.3.        Troubleshoot System                                                                                                   -            -       -           -
A18.5.4.        Inspect System Components                           *                                                                 -            -       -           -
A18.5.5.        Remove and Install components                                                                                        -          -         -            -
A18.5.5.1.      External/Applied Bus Power Contactor      *                                                                           -            -       -           -
A18.5.5.2.      Over Voltage Relay                        *                                                                           -            -       -           -
A18.5.5.3.      Phase Sensing Relay                       *                                                                           -            -       -           -
A18.5.5.4.      Other System Components                             *                                                                 -            -       -           -
A18.6.          LIGHTING SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.6.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                             -          -             -        -
A18.6.2.        Operational Check
A18.6.2.1.      External                                  *                                                                          -          -             -        -
A18.6.2.2.      Internal                                  *                                                                          -          -          -           -
A18.6.2.3.      Emergency                                 *                                                                          -         -           -           -
A18.6.2.4.      Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -          -             -        -
A18.6.2.5.      Inspect                                             *                                                                -          -             -        -
A18.6.3.        Remove and Install components
A18.6.3.1.      Light Assembly                            *                                                                          -          -             -        -
A18.6.3.2.      Emergency Exit Light                      *                                                                          -         -           -           -
A18.6.3.3.      Power Supply                              *                                                                           -            -       -           -
A18.6.3.4.      Dimmer Control Unit                       *                                                                           -            -       -           -
A18.6.3.5.      Flasher Assembly                          *                                                                          -          -          -           -
A18.6.3.6.      Other System Components                             *                                                                 -            -       -           -

                                                                  255
                                                                                                                                               Attachment 18
                                           RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                         Tasks                                                                    Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A        B          C          D           E          A           B                   C
                                                                                                                                  3 Level     5 Level         7 Level
                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)         (2)
                                                              5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC       Course     CDC

A18.7.          LANDING GEAR INDICATION SYSTEMS
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.7.1.        Operational Fundamentals                  *                                                                           -          -          -           -
A18.7.2.        Operational Check
A18.7.2.1.      Landing Gear System                       *                                                                           -          -          -           -
A18.7.2.2.      Lever Lock Solenoid Circuit Checkout      *                                                                          -           -          -           -
A18.7.2.3.      Safety Switch                             *                                                                          -           -         -            -
A18.7.2.4       .Truck Leveling Switch                    *                                                                           -          -          -           -
A18.7.2.5.      Position A (Gear Swing Supervisor)                  *                                                                 -          -          -           -
A18.7.2.6.      Position B (Gear Handle Operator)         *                                                                          -           -          -           -
A18.7.2.7.      Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -          -          -           -
A18.7.2.8.      Inspect System Components                           *                                                                 -          -          -           -
A18.7.3.        Remove and Install Components

A18.7.3.1.      Safety Switch                             *                                                                          -           -          -           -
A18.7.3.2.      Truck Leveling Switch                     *                                                                           -          -          -           -
A18.7.3.3.      Lever Lock Solenoid                       *                                                                           -          -          -           -
A18.7.3.4.      Other System Components                             *                                                                 -          -          -           -
A18.8.          ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.8.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                              -          -          -           -
A18.8.2.        Operational Check                         *                                                                           -          -          -           -
A18.8.3.        Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -          -          -           -
A18.8.4.        Inspect System Components                           *                                                                -           -         -            -
A18.8.5.        Remove and Install Components
A18.8.5.1.      Anti-skid Detector                        *                                                                          -           -         -            -
A18.8.5.2.      Anti-skid Control Shield                  *                                                                           -          -          -           -
A18.8.5.3.      Other System Components                             *                                                                 -          -          -           -
A18.9.          NOSE GEAR STEERING SYSTEM                                                                                            -           -         -            -
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.9.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                              -          -          -           -
A18.9.2.        Operational Check                         *                                                                           -          -          -           -
A18.9.3.        Troubleshoot                                                                                                              -          -          -           -
A18.9.4.        Inspect System Components                           *                                                                     -          -          -           -
A18.9.5.        Remove and Install Components                                                                                        -           -         -            -
A18.9.5.1.      Linear Actuator                           *                                                                          -           -         -            -
A18.9.5.2.      Other Components                                    *                                                                 -          -          -           -
A18.10.         PRIMARY/SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROL
                SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs

                                                                  256
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 18
                                              RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                            2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                            Tasks                                                                    Indicate
                                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B                   C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                         (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
A18.10.1.       Operational Fundamentals                     *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.10.2.       Operational Check
A18.10.2.1.     Flaps                                        *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.10.2.2.     Stab Trim                                    *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.10.3.       Troubleshoot
A18.10.3.1.     Flaps                                                                                                                    -        -          -           -
A18.10.3.2.     Stab Trim                                                                                                               -         -          -           -
A18.10.3.3.     Inspect System Components                              *                                                                 -        -          -           -
A18.10.4.       Remove and Install Components
A18.10.4.1.     Stab Trim control switch                     *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.10.4.2.     Other System Components                                *                                                                 -        -          -           -
A18.11.         OVERHEAT/FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs

A18.11.1.       Walter Kidde Fire loops                                                                                                 -         -         -            -
A18.11.2.       Operational Fundamentals                     *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.11.3.       Operational Check System                     *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.11.4.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                      -        -          -           -
A18.11.5.       Inspect System Components                              *                                                                -         -         -            -
A18.11.6.       Remove and Install Components
A18.11.6.1.     Fire Detection Control Unit                  *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.11.6.2.     Fire Handle                                  *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.11.6.3.     Overheat Detectors                           *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.11.6.4.     Sensing Elements                             *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.11.6.5.     Other System Components                                *                                                                 -        -          -           -
A18.11.7.       Fenwal System Fire Detectors
A18.11.7.1.     Operational Fundamentals                     *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.11.7.2.     Operational Check System                     *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.11.7.3.     Troubleshoot System                                                                                                      -        -          -           -
A18.11.7.4.     Inspect System Components                              *                                                                 -        -          -           -
A18.11.8.       Remove and Install Components                                                                                           -         -         -            -
A18.11.8.1.     Fire Detection Control Unit                  *                                                                          -         -         -            -
A18.11.8.2.     Fire Handle                                  *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.11.8.3.     Overheat Detectors                           *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.11.8.4.     Other System Components                                *                                                                -         -         -            -
A18.12.         FIRE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM
                TR:Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.12.1.       Engine System                                *                                                                           -            -          -       -


                                                                     257
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 18
                                           RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                         Tasks                                                                    Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A        B          C          D           E          A         B                   C
                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                         (1)         (2)
                                                              5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
A18.12.2.       APU System                                                                                                           -         -         -            -
A18.12.3.       Operational/ Continuity Check
A18.12.3.1.     Engine System                             *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.12.3.2.     APU System                                                                                                            -        -          -           -
A18.12.3.3.     Squib/Cartridge Electrical Circuit        *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.12.4.       Troubleshoot
A18.12.4.1.     Engine System                                                                                                         -        -          -           -
A18.12.4.2.     APU System                                                                                                           -         -         -            -
A18.12.5.       Inspect Fire Extinguishing System
A18.12.5.1.     Engine System                                       *                                                                -         -         -            -
A18.12.5.2.     APU System                                          *                                                                 -        -          -           -
A18.12.5.3.     Squib/Cartridge                                     *                                                                 -        -          -           -
A18.12.6.       Remove and Install Components
A18.12.6.1.     Engine Fire Bottle                        *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.12.6.2.     APU Fire Bottle                                                                                                       -        -          -           -
A18.12.6.3.     Squib/Cartridge                           *                                                                          -         -          -           -
A18.12.6.4.     Other System Components                             *                                                                 -        -          -           -
A18.13.         TAKEOFF WARNING SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.13.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                              -        -          -           -
A18.13.2.       Operational Check System                  *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.13.3.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                  -         -         -            -
A18.13.4.       Inspect System Components                           *                                                                 -        -          -           -
A18.13.5.       Remove and Install Components
A18.13.5.1.     Position Switch                           *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.13.5.2.     Warning Horn                              *                                                                           -            -          -       -
A18.13.5.3.     Other System Components                             *                                                                -         -         -            -
A18.14.         FUEL WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.14.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                              -         -            -        -
A18.14.2.       Operational Check System                  *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.14.3.       Boost Pump Current Check                  *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.14.4.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                  -         -         -            -
A18.14.5.       Inspect System Components                           *                                                                 -        -          -           -
A18.14.6.       Remove and Install Components
A18.14.6.1.     Fuel Management Switch                    *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.14.6.2.     Other System Components                             *                                                                 -        -          -           -



                                                                  258
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 18
                                           RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A          B                 C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level    5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                         (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      CDC      Course     CDC
A18.15.         CARGO DOOR CONTROL AND WARNING
                SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.15.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -         -           -
A18.15.2.       Operational Check System                        *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.15.3.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                            -         -      -              -
A18.15.4.       Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                -          -        -           -
A18.15.5.       Remove and Install Components
A18.15.5.1.     Switch                                          *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.15.5.2.     Other System Components                                   *                                                                    -         -      -              -
A18.16.         START AND IGNITION SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.16.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -      -              -
A18.16.2.       Operational Check System
A18.16.2.1.     Jet Engine                                                                                                                 -          -         -          -
A18.16.2.2.     Auxiliary Power Unit                                                                                                           -         -      -              -
A18.16.2.3.     JFS                                                                                                                            -         -      -              -
A18.16.3.       Troubeshoot System
A18.16.3.1.     Jet Engine                                                                                                                 -          -         -          -
A18.16.3.2.     Auxiliary Power Unit                                                                                                       -          -         -          -
A18.16.3.3.     JFS                                                                                                                        -          -         -          -
A18.16.4.       Inspect System Components                                                                                                  -          -        -           -
A18.16.5.       APU Door Limit Switch Adjustment                                                                                               -         -      -              -
A18.16.6.       Remove and Install Components
A18.16.6.1.     Starter Control Valve                           *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.16.6.2.     Other System Components                                   *                                                                    -         -      -              -
A18.17.         NESA ANTI-ICING SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.17.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -          -        -           -
A18.17.2.       Operational Check System (includes resistance   *                                                                              -         -         -           -
                check)
A18.17.3.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                            -         -      -              -
A18.17.4.       Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                    -         -      -              -
A18.17.5.       Remove and Install Components
A18.17.5.1.     Transformer                                     *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.17.5.2.     Controller Amplifier                            *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.17.5.3.     Thermal Switch                                  *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.17.5.4.     Other System Components                                   *                                                                -          -         -          -
A18.18.         BLEED AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.18.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -          -         -          -

                                                                        259
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 18
                                            RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                               Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B                   C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                         (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC       Course     CDC
A18.18.2.       Operational Check System                           *                                                                       -        -          -           -
A18.18.3.       Bleed Air Overheat / Overpressure Indication   *                                                                           -        -          -           -
                Operational Check
A18.18.4.       Perform Leakage Checks                         *                                                                           -            -          -       -
A18.18.5.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                        -        -          -           -
A18.18.6.       Inspect System Components                                *                                                                -         -         -            -
A18.18.7.       Remove and Install Components
A18.18.7.1.     Bleed Air Duct                                 *                                                                          -         -          -           -
A18.18.7.2.     Bleed Air Shutoff Valve                        *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.18.7.3.     Engine Pre-Cooler                                                                                                          -        -          -           -
A18.18.7.4.     Check Valves                                   *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.18.7.5.     Manifold Valve                                 *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.18.7.6.     Pressure Regulator                             *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.18.7.7.     Other System Components                                  *                                                                -         -          -           -
A18.19.         ISOLATED MEASUREMENT POD SYSTEM                                                                                           -         -         -            -
                TR:Applicable RC-135 ETMs
A18.19.1.        Operational Fundamentals                      *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.19.2.       Operational Check System                       *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.19.3.       Perform Leakage Checks                         *                                                                           -        -          -           -
A18.19.4.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                        -        -          -           -
A18.19.5.       Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -        -          -           -
A18.19.6.       Remove and Install Components
A18.19.6.1.     Valve Position Indicator                       *                                                                          -         -          -           -
A18.19.6.2.     Pressure Transducer                            *                                                                          -         -          -           -
A18.19.6.3.     Temperature Sensor                             *                                                                           -        -          -           -

A18.19.6.4.     IMP Control Box                                *                                                                           -         -            -        -
A18.19.6.5.     Other System Components                                  *                                                                 -         -            -        -
A18.20.         AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.20.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -            -        -
A18.20.2.       Operational Check System                       *                                                                           -         -            -        -
A18.20.3.       Perform System Leakage checks                  *                                                                          -         -         -            -
A18.20.4.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                        -         -            -        -
A18.20.5.       Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -            -        -
A18.20.6.       Remove and Install Components
A18.20.6.1.     Water Separator Coalescer                      *                                                                           -         -            -        -
A18.20.6.2.     Water Separator                                *                                                                           -         -            -        -
A18.20.6.3.     Flow Control Valve                             *                                                                           -        -          -           -


                                                                       260
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 18
                                            RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                           2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                           Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                   A        B          C          D           E          A          B                 C
                                                                                                                                                   3 Level    5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                         (1)         (2)
                                                                               5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      CDC      Course     CDC
A18.20.6.4.     Auxiliary Heat / Trim Air Valve                            *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.20.6.5.     Air Cycle Machine                                          *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.20.6.6.     Air Conditioning Machine Limit Valve                       *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.20.6.7.     Hot Air Bypass Valve                                       *                                                                          -          -         -          -
A18.20.6.8.     Primary Heat Exchanger                                               *                                                                -          -         -          -
A18.20.6.9.     Secondary Heat Exchanger                                             *                                                                    -         -         -           -
A18.20.6.10.    Air Cycle Machine Bypass Valve                             *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.20.6.11.    Temp Sensor                                                *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.20.6.12.    35 Degree Control Valve                                    *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.20.6.13.    Ejector Valve                                              *                                                                          -          -         -          -
A18.20.6.14.    Ram Air Valve                                              *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.20.6.15.    Filters                                                    *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.20.6.16.    Other System Components                                              *                                                                    -         -         -           -
A18.20.6.17.    Service Air Cycle Machine                                  *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.21.         PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TOs
A18.21.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                                  -         -      -              -
A18.21.2.       Pressurization Safety                                      *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.21.3.       Operational Check System                                   *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.21.4.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                                       -         -         -           -
A18.21.5.       Inspect System Components                                            *                                                                -          -         -          -
A18.21.6.       Remove and Install Components
A18.21.6.1.     Outflow Valve                                              *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.21.6.2.     Pneumatic Relay                                            *                                                                          -          -         -          -
A18.21.6.3.     Auto Pressure Controller                                   *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.21.6.4.     Filters                                                              *                                                                    -         -         -           -
A18.21.6.5.     Other System Components                                              *                                                                    -         -         -           -
A18.22.         OXYGEN SYSTEMS
                TR: AFOSH standards / TOs 15X1-1 / 42B5-1-2 /
                42E1-1-1 / RC/TC/WC/OC-135 TOs
18.22.1.        Liquid Oxygen
                TR: ETM-RC135U-2 Vol. I Chapter 3. Para.3.1- 3.1.6.13;
                ETM-TC135-2 Vol. I. Chapter 3. Para.3.1-        3.1.6.5;
                ETM-RC135-2-3. Para.2.1-2.1.6.5; ETM-
                RC135S-2 Vol. I Chapter 3. Para.3.1-3.1.6.13; ETM-
                WC135-2 Vol. I Chapter 3 Para.3.1-3.1.7.7;
                ETM-WC135-2 Vol. I Chapter 3 Para.3.1-3.1.7.7
A18.22.1.1.     RC-135U LOX System Operational                                                                                                            -         -         -           -
                Fundamentals/Characteristics.
A18.22.1.2.     TC-135S/W LOX System Operational                                                                                                          -         -      -              -
                Fundamentals/Characteristics.
A18.22.1.3.     RC-135V/W LOX System Operational                                                                                                      -         -         -           -
                Fundamentals/Characteristics.


                                                                                   261
                                                                                                                                                                Attachment 18
                                            RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                       Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A          B                 C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level    5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                         (1)         (2)
                                                                           5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      CDC      Course     CDC
A18.22.1.4.      RC-135S LOX System Operational                                                                                                   -         -         -           -
                 Fundamentals/Characteristics.
A18.22.1.5.      WC-135W LOX System Operational                                                                                                   -          -         -          -
                 Fundamentals/Characteristics.
A18.22.1.6.      WC-135C LOX System Operational                                                                                                   -          -         -          -
                 Fundamentals/Characteristics.
A18.22.17.       Operational Check                                     *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.22.1.8.      Troubleshoot System                                                                                                                  -         -      -              -
A18.22.1.9.      Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                    -         -      -              -
A18.22.1.10.     Remove and Install Components
A18.22.1.10.1. Converter                                               *                                                                          -          -        -           -
A18.22.1.10.2.   Build-up Vent Valve                                   *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.22.1.10.3.   Indicator                                             *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.22.1.10.4. Heat Exchanger                                          *                                                                          -          -            -       -
A18.22.1.10.5.   Distribution System                                   *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.22.1.10.6.   Oxygen Regulator                                      *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.22.1.10.7.   Other System Components                                         *                                                                    -         -      -              -
A18.22.1.10.8. Perform Leak Check                                      *                                                                          -          -        -           -
A18.22.1.10.9.   Clean Components and Tools                            *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.22.1.10.10. Drain System                                           *                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.22.1.10.11. Purge System                                           *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.22.1.10.12. Service System                                         *                                                                              -         -         -           -
A18.22.2.        GASEOUS OXYGEN
A18.22.2.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                             -         -         -           -
A18.22.2.2.      Operational Check System                                                                                                             -         -      -              -
A18.22.2.3.      Troubleshoot System                                                                                                                  -         -      -              -
A18.22.2.4.      Inspect                                                                                                                              -         -      -              -
A18.22.2.5.      Remove and Install Components
A18.22.2.5.1.    Bottle                                                                                                                           -          -        -           -
A18.22.2.5.2.    Oxygen Regulator                                                                                                                     -         -         -           -
A18.22.2.5.3.    Service Valve                                                                                                                        -         -         -           -
A18.22.2.5.4.    Shutoff Valve                                                                                                                        -         -         -           -
A18.22.2.5.5.    Other System Components                                                                                                          -          -         -          -
A18.22.2.6.      Perform Leak Check                                                                                                                   -         -         -           -
A18.22.2.7.      Purge System                                                                                                                         -         -      -              -
A18.22.2.8.      Service System                                                                                                                       -         -      -              -
A18.22.3.        Miscellaneous Systems
                 TR: 1C-135-2-2, 1C-135-2-3, 1C-135-2-4, 1C-135(K)R-
                 2-4JG-7, AND 1C-135A-2-10
A18.22.3.1.      Operational Check/ Operational fundamentals


                                                                               262
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 18
                                            RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core         3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Tasks                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A          B                   C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level    5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      CDC       Course     CDC
A18.22.3.1.1.    Thermal Flash/Protection Power Sources                                                                                       -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.1.2.    Windshield Wiper                                                                                                             -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.1.3.    F-108 Engine Anti-Ice                                                                                                        -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.1.4.    TF-33 Engine Anti-Ice                                                                                                        -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.1.5.    TF-33 Thrust Reverser Light System                                                                                       -          -         -            -
A18.22.3.1.6.    Constant Phoenix Lung Filters                                                                                                -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.1.7.    Control Cabinet Cooling Fans                                                                                                 -          -          -           -
A18.22.3.1.8.    Lower Lobe Fans                                                                                                              -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.1.9     60 Hertz System                                                                                                              -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.1.10    Hydraulic Low Pressure Warning System                                                                                    -          -          -           -
A18.22.3.2.      Troubleshoot
A18.22.3.2.1.    Thermal Flash/Protection Power Sources                                                                                       -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.2.2.    Windshield Wiper                                                                                                             -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.2.3.    F-108 Engine Anti-Ice                                                                                                        -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.2.4.    TF-33 Engine Anti-Ice                                                                                                        -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.2.5.    TF-33 Thrust Reverser Light System                                                                                           -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.2.6.    Constant Phoenix Lungs Filters                                                                                               -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.2.7.    Control Cabinet Cooling Fans                                                                                                 -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.2.8.    Lower Lobe Fans                                                                                                              -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.2.9.    60 Hertz System                                                                                                          -          -         -            -
A18.22.3.2.10.   Hydraulic Low Pressure Warning System                                                                                        -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.3.      Inspect
A18.22.3.3.1.    TF-33 Thrust Reverser Light Components                                                                                   -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.3.2.    Constant Phoenix Lungs Filters                                                                                           -          -          -           -
A18.22.3.3.3.    Control Cabinet Cooling Fans                                                                                             -          -          -           -
A18.22.3.3.4.    Lower Lobe Fans                                                                                                          -          -          -           -
A18.22.3.3.5.    60 Hertz System                                                                                                              -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.3.6.    Hydraulic Low Pressure Warning System                                                                                        -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.3.7.    Remove and Install                                                                                                           -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.3.8.    Thermal Flash Protection Conditioner                                                                                         -         -       -               -
A18.22.3.3.9.    TF-33 Thrust Reverser Light System Components                                                                                -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.3.10.   Constant Phoenix Lungs Filters                                                                                               -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.3.11.   Control Cabinet Cooling Fans                                                                                                 -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.3.12.   Lower Lobe Fans                                                                                                              -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.3.13.   60 Hertz Convertor                                                                                                           -         -          -            -
A18.22.3.3.14.   Other Systems Components                                                                                                 -          -          -           -


                                                                       263
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 18
                                           RC/TC/OC/WC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                         Tasks                                                                    Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A        B          C          D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                              5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A18.23.         LIQUID COOLING / VAPOR CYCLE SYSTEM                                                                                  -         -        -           -
                TR: ETM-VCS-22, ETM-RSU, ETM-RC135-2-3
A18.23.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                              -         -           -       -
A18.23.2.       Operational Check                         *                                                                           -         -           -       -
A18.23.3.       Troubleshoot System                                                                                                  -         -         -          -
A18.23.4.       Inspect System Components                           *                                                                 -        -         -          -
A18.23.5.       Remove and Install Components
A18.23.5.1.     Valve Mixing / Shutoff                    *                                                                           -         -           -       -
A18.23.5.2.     Controller                                *                                                                           -         -           -       -
A18.23.5.3.     Pump                                      *                                                                           -         -           -       -
A18.23.5.4.     Hose                                      *                                                                           -         -           -       -
A18.23.5.5.     Heat Exchanger                            *                                                                           -        -         -          -
A18.23.5.6.     Blower Motor                              *                                                                           -         -           -       -
A18.23.5.7.     Filter                                    *                                                                          -         -         -          -
A18.23.5.8.     Other Systems Components                            *                                                                -         -         -          -
A18.23.6.       Service System
A18.23.6.1.     LCS                                       *                                                                           -         -           -       -
A18.23.6.2.     VCS                                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A18.23.7.       Operate Reservoir Servicing Unit (RSU)    *                                                                           -         -           -       -




                                                                  264
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 18
                                                          E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                             Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 19
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 19 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain E-3 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ AMC/A4MMT,
402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; or call DSN 576-4787. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training
Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A19.1.           AC POWER SYSTEM
                 TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.1.1.          Operational fundamentals                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A19.1.2.         Operational check 400 HZ system                             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.1.3.         Operational check 60 HZ system                              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.1.4.         Troubleshoot systems                                                  *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.1.5.          Inspect system components                                            *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.          Remove components
A19.1.6.1.       Generator circuit breaker (GCB)                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.2.       Integrated Drive Generator (IDG)                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.3.       Bus Power Control Unit (BPCU)                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.4.       Bus-Tie Breaker (BTB)                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.5.       Current Transformer (CT)                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.6.       Generator Control Unit (GCU)                                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.7.       Frequency Reference Unit (FRU)                              *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.8.       Frequency and Load Controller (FLC)                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.9.        Electronic Load Control Unit (ELCU)                        *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.10.       Switch Lights/Indicator Lights                             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.11.      Miscellaneous Relays                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.12.      Circuit Breakers/Panels                                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.13.      Static Inverter                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.14.       Panel Mounted Indicators                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.15.       Engine IDG Power Feeder Harness                                      *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.16.      Wing IDG Power Feeder Harness                                         *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.17.      Static Frequency Converter                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A19.1.6.18.      Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A19.1.7.         Install components
A19.1.7.1.        Generator circuit breaker (GCB)                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A19.1.7.2.       Integrated Drive Generator (IDG)                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A19.1.7.3.       Bus Power Control Unit (BPCU)                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -


                                                                                     265
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 19
                                                      E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                               Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

A19.1.7.4.      Bus-Tie Breaker (BTB)                                                                                                     -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.5.      Current Transformer (CT)                                                                                                  -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.6.      Generator Control Unit (GCU)                   *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.7.      Frequency Reference Unit (FRU)                 *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.8.      Frequency and Load Controller (FLC)            *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.9.      Electronic Load Control Unit (ELCU)            *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.10.     Switch Lights/Indicator Lights                 *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.11.     Miscellaneous Relays                                                                                                      -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.12.     Circuit Breakers/Panels                        *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.13.     Static Inverter                                                                                                           -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.14.     Panel Mounted Indicators                                                                                                  -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.15.     Engine IDG Power Feeder Harness                          *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.16.     Wing IDG Power Feeder Harness                            *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.17.     Static Frequency Converter                                                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.1.7.18.     Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                  -         -        -           -
A19.2.          DC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.2.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -            -       -
A19.2.2.        Operational Check System                       *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.2.3.        Troubleshoot System(s)                                   *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.2.4.        Inspect System Component(s)                              *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.2.5.        Remove components
A19.2.5.1.      Transformer Rectifier Unit (TRU)                                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.2.5.2.      Main/Lighting Battery Charger                  *
A19.2.5.3.      Main/Lighting Aircraft Battery                 *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.2.5.4.      Circuit Breakers/Panels                        *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.2.5.5.      Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                  -         -        -           -
A19.2.6.        Install components
A19.2.6.1.      Transformer Rectifier Unit (TRU)                                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.2.6.2.      Main/Lighting Battery Charger                  *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.2.6.3.      Main/Lighting Aircraft Battery                 *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.2.6.4.      Circuit Breakers/Panels                        *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.2.6.5.      Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                  -         -        -           -
A19.3.          EXTERNAL POWER SYSTEM                                                                                                     -
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                       *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.3.2.        Operational Check System                       *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.3.3.        Troubleshoot System                                      *                                                                -         -        -           -

                                                                       266
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 19
                                                      E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                               Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A          B                   C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level    5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      CDC       Course     CDC

A19.3.4.        Inspect System Components                                *                                                                -          -         -            -
A19.3.5.        Remove components
A19.3.5.1.      External Power Receptacle                                                                                                 -          -         -            -
A19.3.5.2.      External Power Contactor (EPC)                 *                                                                          -          -         -            -
A19.3.5.3.      External Power Transformer Rectifier Unit                                                                                 -          -         -            -
A19.3.5.4.      Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                  -          -         -            -
A19.3.6.        Install components
A19.3.6.1.      External Power Receptacle                                                                                                 -          -         -            -
A19.3.6.2.      External Power Contactor (EPC)                 *                                                                              -          -          -           -
A19.3.6.3.      External Power Transformer Rectifier Unit                                                                                 -          -         -            -
A19.3.6.4.      Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                  -          -         -            -
A19.4.          APU POWER SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -       -               -
A19.4.2.        Operational Check Generator System             *                                                                          -          -         -            -
A19.4.3.        Operational Check Start and Control                                                                                       -          -         -            -
A19.4.4.        Troubleshoot System                                      *                                                                -          -         -            -
A19.4.5.        Inspect System Components                                *                                                                    -         -       -               -
A19.4.6.        Remove components
A19.4.6.1.      Generator Control Unit                         *                                                                          -          -         -            -
A19.4.6.2.      Aux Power Contactor (APC)                      *                                                                          -          -         -            -
A19.4.6.3.      APU Current Transformer                                                                                                   -         -           -           -
A19.4.6.4.      Generator                                                                                                                 -         -           -           -
A19.4.6.5.      APU Inlet/Exhaust Door Limit Switch                                                                                       -         -           -           -
A19.4.6.6.      Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                  -         -          -            -
A19.4.7.        Install components
A19.4.7.1.      Generator Control Unit                         *                                                                          -         -           -           -
A19.4.7.2.      Aux Power Contactor (APC)                      *                                                                          -         -           -           -
A19.4.7.3.      APU Current Transformer                                                                                                   -         -           -           -
A19.4.7.4.      Generator                                                                                                                 -         -           -           -
A19.4.7.5.      APU Inlet/Exhaust Door Limit Switch                                                                                       -         -           -           -
A19.4.7.6.      Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                  -          -         -            -
A19.5.          LIGHTING SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -          -            -
A19.5.2.        Slipway/Receptacle Lights Relamping                                                                                       -          -         -            -
A19.5.3.        Miscellaneous Exterior Lights Relamping                                                                                   -         -          -            -


                                                                       267
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 19
                                                         E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                  Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A          B                  C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level    5 Level         7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      CDC       Course     CDC

A19.5.4.        Aisle Light Relamping                                                                                                        -          -         -           -
A19.5.5.        Special Purpose Console Light Relamping                                                                                      -          -         -           -
A19.5.6.        Fluorescent Light Relamping                                                                                                  -          -         -           -
A19.5.7.        Miscellaneous Interior Lights Relamping                                                                                      -         -          -           -
A19.5.8.        Portable Emergency Exit Light Relamping                                                                                      -          -         -           -
A19.5.9.        Troubleshoot                                                *                                                                -          -         -           -
A19.5.10.       Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                -          -         -           -
A19.5.11.       Operational check
A19.5.11.1.     External                                          *                                                                          -          -         -           -
A19.5.11.2.     Internal                                          *                                                                          -          -         -           -
A19.5.11.3.     External Emergency                                *                                                                          -          -         -           -
A19.5.11.4.     Internal Emergency                                *                                                                          -         -          -           -
A19.5.12.       Remove components
A19.5.12.1.     Lower Strobe Light Power Supply                                                                                              -          -         -           -
A19.5.12.2.     Lower Strobe Light Assembly                                                                                                  -          -         -           -
A19.5.12.3.     Upper Strobe Light Power Supply                                                                                              -          -         -           -
A19.5.12.4      .Upper Strobe Light Assembly                                                                                                 -          -         -           -
A19.5.12.5.     Interior Lighting Ballasts                                                                                                   -          -         -           -
A19.5.12.6.     Overhead Fluorescent Lighting Ballasts                                                                                       -          -         -           -
A19.5.12.7.     Chart Holders                                                                                                                -          -         -           -
A19.5.12.8.     Lavatory Mirror Lighting Relay Ballast Box                                                                                   -          -         -           -
A19.5.12.9.     Emergency Exit Light Battery Packs                *                                                                          -          -         -           -
A19.5.13.       Install components
A19.5.13.1.     Lower Strobe Light Power Supply                                                                                              -          -         -           -
A19.5.13.2.     Lower Strobe Light Assembly                                                                                                  -          -         -           -
A19.5.13.3.     Upper Strobe Light Power Supply                                                                                              -          -         -           -
A19.5.13.4.     Upper Strobe Light Assembly                                                                                                  -          -         -           -
A19.5.13.5.     Interior Lighting Ballasts                                                                                                       -          -         -           -
A19.5.13.6.     Overhead Fluorescent Lighting Ballasts                                                                                           -          -         -           -
A19.5.13.7.     Chart Holders                                                                                                                -          -         -           -
A19.5.13.8.     Lavatory Mirror Lighting Relay Ballast Box                                                                                   -          -         -           -
A19.5.13.9.     Emergency Exit Light Battery Packs                *                                                                          -          -         -           -
A19.6.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1, 1E-3A-2-32-1
A19.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -          -         -           -
A19.6.2.        Operational check
A19.6.2.1.      Position A (Gear swing supervisor)                                                                                           -          -         -           -


                                                                          268
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 19
                                                    E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                             Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.6.2.2.      Position B (Gear handle operator)                                                                                       -         -        -           -
A19.6.2.3.      Warning and indication                       *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.2.4.      Lever lock circuit checkout                  *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.3.        Preparation for Sim Airborne Mode            *                                                                          -        -         -           -
A19.6.4.        Troubleshoot                                           *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.6.5.        Inspect System Components                              *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.6.6.        Remove components
A19.6.6.1.      Safety Switches                              *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.6.2.      Warning Horn                                                                                                            -         -        -           -
A19.6.6.3.      Lever Lock Solenoid                                                                                                     -         -        -           -
A19.6.6.4.      Lever Limit Switches                                                                                                    -         -        -           -
A19.6.6.5.      Thrust Lever Switches                                                                                                   -         -        -           -
A19.6.6.6.      Truck Centering Switches                     *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.6.7.      Main/Nose Lock Switches                      *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.6.8.      Main/Nose Position Switches                  *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.6.9.      Main/Nose Door Lock Switches                                                                                            -         -        -           -
A19.6.6.10.     Flap Position Warning Switches                                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.7.        Install components
A19.6.7.1.      Safety Switches                              *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.7.2.      Warning Horn                                                                                                            -         -        -           -
A19.6.7.3.      Lever Lock Solenoid                                                                                                     -        -         -           -
A19.6.7.4.      Lever Limit Switches                                                                                                    -         -        -           -
A19.6.7.5.      Thrust Lever Switches                                                                                                   -         -        -           -
A19.6.7.6.      Truck Centering Switches                     *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.7.7.      Main/Nose Lock Switches                      *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.7.8.      Main/Nose Position Switches                  *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.6.7.9.      Main/Nose Door Lock Switches                                                                                            -         -        -           -
A19.6.7.10.     Flap Position Warning Switches                                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.7.          ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1, 1E-3A-2-32-1
A19.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.4.2.        Operational check                            *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.7.3.        Troubleshoot                                           *                                                                -         -            -       -
A19.7.4.        Inspect System Components                              *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.7.5.        Remove components
A19.7.5.1.      Skid Detector (transducer)                   *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.7.5.2.      Anti-skid Shield                             *                                                                          -         -        -           -


                                                                     269
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 19
                                                      E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                               Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.7.5.3.      Indication Panel                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.7.5.4.      Miscellaneous components                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A19.7.6.        Install components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A19.7.6.1.      Skid Detector (transducer)                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.7.6.2.      Anti-skid Shield                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.7.6.3.      Indication Panel                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.7.6.4.      Miscellaneous components                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A19.8.          PRIMARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A19.8.2.        Operational Check System                       *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.8.3.        Troubleshoot System                                      *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.8.4.        Inspect System Components                                *                                                                -        -         -          -
A19.8.5.        Remove Components
A19.8.5.1.      Stab Trim Position Switches                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A19.8.5.2.      Manual-Electric Stab Trim Motor                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A19.8.5.3.      Stab Trim Control Switches                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.8.6.        Install Components
A19.8.6.1.      Stab Trim Position Switches                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A19.8.6.2.      Manual-Electric Stab Trim Motor                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A19.8.6.3.      Stab Trim Control Switches                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.9.          SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3a-2-24-1
A19.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A19.9.2.        Operational check
A19.9.2.1.      Flaps                                          *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.9.2.2.      Spoilers                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A19.9.2.3.      Speed Brake                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A19.9.2.4.      Limit Switch Adjustment                        *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.9.3.        Troubleshoot
A19.9.3.1.      Flaps                                                    *                                                                -        -         -          -
A19.9.3.2.      Spoilers                                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.9.3.3.      Speed Brake                                              *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.9.4.        Remove components
A19.9.4.1.      Leading/Trailing Edge Flap Switches            *                                                                          -        -         -          -
A19.9.4.2.      Emergency Flap Limit Switches                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A19.9.4.3.      Speed Brake Position Switches                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A19.9.4.4.      Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                  -         -        -          -

                                                                       270
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 19
                                                        E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.9.5.        Install components
A19.9.5.1.      Leading/Trailing Edge Flap Switches                  *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.9.5.2.      Emergency Flap Limit Switches                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A19.9.5.3.      Speed Brake Position Switches                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A19.9.5.4.      Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A19.10.         HYDRAULIC PRESSURE SUPPLY SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.10.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -        -         -          -
A19.10.2.       Operational Check Utility System                     *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.10.3.       Operational Check Aux System                         *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.10.4.       Operational Check Rotodome System                    *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.10.5.       Troubleshoot System                                            *                                                                -        -         -          -
A19.10.6.       Remove/Replace Miscellaneous System Components                                                                                  -        -         -          -
A19.10.7.       Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                -        -         -          -
A19.11.         FIRE WARNING SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A19.11.2.       Operational check engine fire detection system       *                                                                          -        -         -          -
A19.11.3.       Operational check wheel well fire detection system   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.11.4.       Operational check APU fire detection system          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.11.5.       Troubleshoot Systems                                           *                                                                -        -         -          -
A19.11.6.       Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.11.7.       Remove components
A19.11.7.1.     Fire T-Handle                                        *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.11.7.2.     Fire Sensing Elements                                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.11.7.3.     APU Fire Sensing Elements                            *
A19.11.7.4.     Fire Detection Modules                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.11.7.5.     Hermetic Fire Detection Connectors                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.11.8.       Install components
A19.11.8.1.     Fire T-Handle                                        *                                                                          -        -         -          -
A19.11.8.2.     Fire Sensing Elements                                *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.11.8.3.     APU Fire Sensing Elements                            *                                                                          -        -         -          -
A19.11.8.4.     Fire Detection Modules                               *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.11.8.5.     Hermetic Fire Detection Connectors                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.12.         FIRE EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.12.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A19.13.2.       Operational Check System                             *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.12.3.       Cartridge Continuity Test                            *                                                                          -         -        -          -

                                                                             271
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 19
                                                    E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                             Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.12.4.       Troubleshoot Systems                                   *                                                                -        -         -          -
A19.12.5.       Inspect System Components                              *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.12.6.       Remove components
A19.12.6.1.     Engine Fire Extinguishing Bottle                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A19.12.6.2.     Engine Discharge Cartridge                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.12.6.3.     Engine Selector Control Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A19.12.6.4.     APU Fire Extinguishing Bottle                *                                                                          -        -         -          -
A19.12.6.5.     APU Discharge Cartridge                      *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.12.6.6.     APU Control Panel                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A19.12.6.7.     Miscellaneous Components/Control Panels                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A19.12.7.       Install Components
A19.12.7.1.     Engine Fire Extinguishing Bottle                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A19.12.7.2.     Engine Discharge Cartridge                   *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.12.7.3.     Engine Selector Control Valve                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A19.12.7.4.     APU Fire Extinguishing Bottle                *                                                                          -        -         -          -
A19.12.7.5.     APU Discharge Cartridge                      *                                                                          -        -         -          -
A19.12.7.6.     APU Control Panel                                                                                                       -         -        -          -

A19.12.7.7.     Miscellaneous Components/Control Panels                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.13.         TAKEOFF WARNING SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.13.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.13.2.       Operational Check System                     *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.13.3.       Troubleshoot System                                    *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.13.4.       Inspect System Components                              *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.13.5.       Remove Miscellaneous Components                                                                                         -         -         -         -
A19.13.6.       Install Miscellaneous Components                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A19.14.         FUEL WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1,1E-3A-2-28-1
A19.14.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.14.2.       Operational check
A19.14.2.1.     APU Fuel Feed                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A19.14.2.2.     Engine Fuel Feed                                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A19.14.2.3.     Air Refueling System                                   *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.14.2.4.     Refueling System                                       *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.14.2.5.     Fuel Dump System                                       *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.14.3.       Troubleshoot
A19.14.3.1.     APU Fuel Feed                                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A19.14.3.2.     Engine Fuel Feed                                                                                                        -         -         -         -

                                                                     272
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 19
                                                     E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                  5           7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.14.3.3.     Air Refueling System                                      *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.14.3.4.     Refueling System                                          *                                                                -         -         -          -
A19.14.3.5.     Fuel Dump System                                          *                                                                -         -         -          -
A19.14.4.       Remove components
A19.14.4.1.     Pressure Disconnect Switch                                                                                                 -         -         -          -
A19.14.4.2.     Dump Chute Uplatch Actuator                                                                                                -         -         -          -
A19.14.4.3.     Dump Chute Actuator                                                                                                        -         -         -          -
A19.14.4.4.     Dump Chute Limit Switches                                                                                                  -         -        -           -
A19.14.4.5.     Plunger Switch                                                                                                             -         -        -           -
A19.14.4.6.     Toggle Switches                                                                                                            -         -         -          -
A19.14.4.7.     Induction Coil                                                                                                             -         -         -          -
A19.14.4.8.     Slipway Door switches                                                                                                      -         -         -          -
A19.14.4.9.     Air Refueling Signal Amplifier                                                                                             -         -         -          -
A19.14.4.10.    Other system components                                                                                                    -         -         -          -
A19.14.5.       Install components
A19.14.5.1.     Pressure Disconnect Switch                                                                                                 -         -         -          -
A19.14.5.2.     Dump Chute Uplatch Actuator                                                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.14.5.3.     Dump Chute Actuator                                                                                                        -         -         -          -
A19.14.5.4.     Dump Chute Limit Switches                                                                                                  -         -         -          -
A19.14.5.5.     Plunger Switch                                                                                                             -         -         -          -
A19.14.5.6.     Toggle Switches                                                                                                            -         -         -          -
A19.14.5.7.     Induction Coil                                                                                                             -         -         -          -
A19.14.5.8.     Slipway Door switches                                                                                                      -         -        -           -
A19.14.5.9.     Air Refueling Signal Amplifier                                                                                             -        -         -           -
A19.14.5.10.    Other system components                                                                                                    -        -         -           -
A19.15.         START AND IGNITION SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.15.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                   -        -         -           -
A19.15.2.       Starter Circuit Operational Check                                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.15.3.       Ignition Circuit Operational Check                                                                                         -         -        -           -
A19.15.4.       Engine Oil Pressure Warning Operational Check                                                                              -         -        -           -
A19.15.5.       Engine/Nose Cowl Anti-Icing Operational Check                                                                              -         -        -           -
A19.15.6.       Troubleshoot                                              *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.15.7.       Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.15.8.       Ignition RFI Filter Replacement                                                                                            -         -        -           -
A19.15.9.       Engine Anti-Ice Valve Motor Replacement                                                                                    -         -            -       -
A19.15.10.      Miscellaneous Components Replacement                                                                                       -         -        -           -


                                                                      273
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 19
                                                      E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                   Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.16.         WARNING CIRCUITS                                                                                                              -         -        -           -
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.16.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -           -
A19.16.2.       Visual Warning Display Operational Check                                                                                      -         -        -           -
A19.16.3.       Door Warning System Operational Check              *                                                                          -         -        -           -
A19.16.4.       Troubleshoot Systems                                         *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.16.5.       Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                -         -         -          -
A19.16.6.       Remove components
A19.16.6.1.     Visual Warning Display Unit                                                                                                   -         -         -          -
A19.16.6.2.     Door warning annunciator module                                                                                               -         -         -          -
A19.16.6.3.     Door warning switches                                                                                                         -         -        -           -
A19.16.6.4.     Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                      -         -        -           -
A19.16.7.       Install Components
A19.16.7.1.     Visual Warning Display Unit                                                                                                   -         -        -           -
A19.16.7.2.     Door warning annunciator module                                                                                               -         -        -           -
A19.16.7.3.     Door warning switches                                                                                                         -         -         -          -
A19.16.7.4.     Miscellaneous Components                                                                                                      -         -         -          -
A19.17.         WINDSHIELD WIPER SYSTEM
                TR: Applicable B-52 TOs (Input for field needed)
A19.17.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -         -          -
A19.17.2.       Operational Check                                                                                                             -         -         -          -
A19.17.3.       Troubleshoot                                                 *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.17.4.       Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                -         -        -           -
A19.17.5.       Remove Components
A19.17.5.1.     Wiper Motor                                                                                                                   -         -        -           -
A19.17.5.2.     Wiper Switch                                                                                                                  -         -        -           -
A19.17.5.3.     Other system components                                                                                                       -         -        -           -
A19.17.6.       Install Components
A19.17.6.1.     Wiper Motor                                                                                                                   -         -        -           -
A19.17.6.2.     Wiper Switch                                                                                                                  -         -        -           -
A19.17.6.3.     Other system components                                                                                                       -         -        -           -
A19.18.         NESA ANTI-ICING SYSTEM                                                                                                        -         -            -       -
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.18.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -           -
A19.18.2.       Operational/Resistance Check System                *                                                                          -         -         -          -
A19.18.3.       Use Decade Resistor Box                            *                                                                          -         -         -          -
A19.18.4.       Troubleshoot System                                          *                                                                -         -         -          -
A19.18.5.       Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                -         -         -          -
A19.18.6.       Remove components

                                                                           274
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 19
                                                       E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.18.6.1.     Window Heat Controller                          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.18.6.2.     Window Heat Autotransformer                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.18.6.3.     Window Thermal Switch                           *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.18.6.4.     Suppression Diodes/Capacitors                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.18.6.5.     Other System Components                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.18.7.       Install components
A19.18.7.1.     Window Heat Controller                          *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.18.7.2.     Window Heat Autotransformer                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.18.7.3.     Window Thermal Switch                           *                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.18.7.4.     Suppression Diodes/Capacitors                                                                                              -        -         -          -
A19.18.7.5.     Other System Components                                                                                                    -        -         -          -
A19.19.         AUTOMATIC LIFE RAFT CIRCUITS
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1,1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.19.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -        -         -          -
A19.19.2.       Operational (Continuity) Check                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A19.19.3.       Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.19.4.       Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.19.5.       Remove components
A19.19.5.1.     Life Raft Water Activated Battery               *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.19.5.2.     Life Raft Squib Actuated Pressure Cylinder      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.19.5.3.     Other system components                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.19.6.       Install components
A19.19.6.1.     Life Raft Water Activated Battery               *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.19.6.2.     Life Raft Squib Actuated Pressure Cylinder      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.19.6.3.     Other system components                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A19.20.         Q-SPRING HEATER SYSTEM                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1
A19.20.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A19.20.2.       Operational Check                               *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.20.3.       Troubleshoot                                              *                                                                -         -        -          -
A19.20.4.       Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.20.5.       Replace Q-Spring Heater                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.20.6.       Replace other system components                                                                                            -         -         -         -
A19.21.         LAVATORY/GALLEY SYSTEMS
                TR: 1E-3A-2-24-1.1E-3A-2-7, 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.21.1.          Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.21.2.       Lavatory System Operational Check                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A19.21.3.       Galley Systems Operational Check                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A19.21.4.       Service Refrigerant                                                                                                        -         -         -         -

                                                                        275
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 19
                                                      E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                               Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.21.5.       Troubleshoot Systems                                     *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.21.6.       Inspect System Components                                *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.21.7.       Remove Components
A19.21.7.1.     Toilet Motor                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A19.21.7.2.     Toilet Timer                                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.21.7.3.     Refrigerator/Condenser                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.21.7.4.     Oven                                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A19.21.7.5.     Other system components                                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A19.21.8.       Install Components
A19.21.8.1.     Toilet Motor                                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.21.8.2.     Toilet Timer                                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.21.8.3.     Refrigerator/Condenser                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.21.8.4.     Oven                                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A19.21.8.5.     Other system components                                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A19.22.         BLEED AIR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.22.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.22.2.       Operational check System                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.3.       Operational check Bleed Air Leak Detection     *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.4.       Perform leakage checks                         *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.5.       Troubleshoot System                                      *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.22.6.       Inspect System Components                                *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.22.7.       Nitrogen check components                      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.8.       Lock/unlock valves                             *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.       Remove components
A19.22.9.1.     Pressure Regulating Shut off valve             *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.2.     Firewall shutoff valve                         *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.3.     Flow Topping Sensor                            *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.4.     Engine Pre-cooler                                                                                                         -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.5.     Check Valves                                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.6.     Isolation Valve                                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.7.     Antenna Pedestal Shutoff Valve                                                                                            -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.8.     Bleed Air Ducts                                *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.9.     Negative Pressure Relief Valves/Check Valves                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.10.    Duct Pressure Transmitters                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.11.    Overheat Switch                                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.12.    Bleed Air Leak Control Unit                    *                                                                          -         -         -         -


                                                                       276
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 19
                                                        E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.22.9.13.    Bleed Air Leak Sensor Element                    *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.9.14.    Other System Components                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.
A19.22.10.1.    Pressure Regulating Shut off valve               *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.2.    Firewall shutoff valve                           *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.3.    Flow Topping Sensor                              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.4.    Engine Pre-cooler                                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.5.    Check Valves                                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.6.    Isolation Valve                                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.7.    Antenna Pedestal Shutoff Valve                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.8.    Bleed Air Ducts                                  *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.9.    Negative Pressure Relief Valves/Check Valves                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.10.   Duct Pressure Transmitters                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.11.   Overheat Switch                                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.12.   Bleed Air Leak Control Unit                      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.13.   Bleed Air Leak Sensor Element                    *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.22.10.14.   Other System Components                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A19.23.         AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.23.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.23.2.       Operational Check System                         *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.3.       Perform System Leakage checks                    *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.4.       Troubleshoot System                                        *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.23.5.       Service Air Cycle Machine                        *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.6.       Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.23.7.       Reflange/Repair Ducts                            *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.8.       Valve Position Indication Adjustment                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A19.23.9.       Remove components
A19.23.9.1.     Water separator /coalescer                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.9.2.     Ducting                                          *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.9.3.     Air Cycle Machine                                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A19.23.9.4.     Pri/Sec Flow Control Valve                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.9.5.     Temp Control (Bypass) Valve                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.23.9.6.     Pressure/Temp Sensors                                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A19.23.9.7.     Pri/Sec Heat Exchanger                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A19.23.9.8.     Zone Trim Pressure/Temperature Valves                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A19.23.9.9.     Ram Air Inlet Door/Actuator                                                                                                 -         -         -         -


                                                                         277
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 19
                                                        E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.23.9.10.    Gasper Air Fan                                   *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.9.11.    Other System Components                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.      Install components
A19.23.10.1.    Water separator /coalescer                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.2.    Ducting                                          *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.3.    Air Cycle Machine                                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.4.    Pri/Sec Flow Control Valve                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.5.    Temp Control (Bypass) Valve                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.6.    Pressure/Temp Sensors                                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.7.    Pri/Sec Heat Exchanger                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.8.    Zone Trim Pressure/Temperature Valves                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.9.    Ram Air Inlet Door/Actuator                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.10.   Gasper Air Fan                                   *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.23.10.11.   Other System Components                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A19.24.         PRESSURIZATION SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.24.1.          Operational fundamentals                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.24.2.       Operational Check System                         *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.24.3.       Cabin Pressure Indicators Checkout               *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.24.4.       Pressure Decay Checkout                          *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.24.5.       Troubleshoot System                                        *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.24.6.       Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.24.7.       Remove components
A19.24.7.1.     Outflow valve/filters                                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A19.24.7.2.     Vacuum Pump                                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.24.7.3.     Pressure controller                              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.24.7.4.     Altitude Warning Switch                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A19.24.7.5.     Selector Panel                                   *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.24.7.6.     Indicators                                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.24.7.7.     Other system components                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A19.24.8.       Install components
A19.24.8.1.     Outflow valve/filters                                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A19.24.8.2.     Vacuum Pump                                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.24.8.3.     Pressure controller                              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.24.8.4.     Altitude Warning Switch                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A19.24.8.5.     Selector Panel                                   *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.24.8.6.     Indicators                                                                                                                  -         -         -         -


                                                                         278
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 19
                                                  E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                           Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                   A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                               5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.24.8.7.     Other system components                                                                                               -         -         -         -
A19.25.         DRAW THROUGH COOLING SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.25.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.25.2.       Operational Check System                   *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.25.3.       Troubleshoot System                                  *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.25.4.       Inspect System Components                            *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.25.5.       Pressure drop check                                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A19.25.6.       Remove Components
A19.25.6.1.     Flow Control Valve                         *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.25.6.2.     Fan                                        *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.25.6.3.     15,000 Ft Altitude Switch                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A19.25.6.4.     No-Flow Detector                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A19.25.6.5.     Ducting/Other System Components            *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.25.7.       Install Components
A19.25.7.1.     Flow Control Valve                         *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.25.7.2.     Fan                                        *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.25.7.3.     15,000 Ft Altitude Switch                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A19.25.7.4.     No-Flow Detector                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A19.25.7.5.     Ducting/Other System Components            *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.26.         FORCED AIR COOLING SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.26.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.26.2.       Operational Check AFT System               *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.26.3.       Operational Check FWD System               *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.26.4.       Troubleshoot System                                  *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.26.5.       Inspect System Components                            *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.26.6.       Trim Valve Position Indicators                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A19.26.7.       Pressure Drop Test                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.       Remove Components
A19.26.8.1.     Fan No Flow Detectors                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.2.     Differential Pressure Switch                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.3.     5,000 ft Switch                                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.4.     FWD/AFT Temp Switches                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.5.     FWD Fans                                   *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.6.     AFT Fans                                   *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.7.     FWD System Valves                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.8.     AFT System Valves                                                                                                     -         -         -         -

                                                                   279
                                                                                                                                               Attachment 19
                                                       E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.26.8.9.     Rack Valves                                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.10.    FWD System Heat Exchanger                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.11.    AFT System Heat Exchanger                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.26.8.12.    Other System Components                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.       Install Components
A19.26.9.1.     Fan No Flow Detectors                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.2.     Differential Pressure Switch                                                                                               -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.3.     5,000 ft Switch                                                                                                            -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.4.     FWD/AFT Temp Switches                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.5.     FWD Fans                                        *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.6.     AFT Fans                                        *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.7.     FWD System Valves                                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.8.     AFT System Valves                                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.9.     Rack Valves                                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.10.    FWD System Heat Exchanger                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.11.    AFT System Heat Exchanger                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.26.9.12.    Other System Components                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.27.         LIQUID COOLANT SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.27.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A19.27.2.       Leak and Operational Check System               *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.3.       Nitrogen Bottle Charging                        *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.4.       LCS Draining/Partial Draining                   *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.5.       LCS Flushing/Filling with Cart                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A19.27.6.       LCS Filling with Hand Servicing Unit            *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.7.       Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.27.8.       Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.27.9.       Clean Resistivity Cells                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.27.10.      Replace Filters                                 *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.      Remove Components
A19.27.11.1.    Nitrogen Supply/Fill Valve                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.2.    Ground Cooler/Shutoff Valve                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.3.    Nitrogen Regulator                                                                                                         -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.4.    Temperature Control Valve                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.5.    Centrifugal Pumps                                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.6.    Expansion Tank                                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.7.    Sight Gage                                      *                                                                          -         -         -         -


                                                                        280
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 19
                                                     E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.27.11.8.    Coolant Resistivity/Control Panel                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.9.    Resistivity Cell                                *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.10.   Inlet/Outlet Valve                                                                                                         -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.11.   Flight Cooler/Shutoff Valve                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.12.   Repurification Unit                                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A19.27.11.13.   Other System Components                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.      Install Components
A19.27.12.1.    Nitrogen Supply/Fill Valve                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.2.    Ground Cooler/Shutoff Valve                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.3.    Nitrogen Regulator                                                                                                         -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.4.    Temperature Control Valve                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.5.    Centrifugal Pumps                                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.6.    Expansion Tank                                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.7.    Sight Gage                                      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.8.    Coolant Resistivity/Control Panel                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.9.    Resistivity Cell                                *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.10.   Inlet/Outlet Valve                                                                                                         -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.11.   Flight Cooler/Shutoff Valve                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.12.   Repurification Unit                                                                                                        -         -         -         -
A19.27.12.13.   Other System Components                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.28.         LIQUID OXYGEN SYSTEM
                TR: AFOSH standards / TOs 15X1-1 / 42B5-1-2 /
                42E1-1-1 / 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.28.1.       Operational fundamentals                        *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.2.       Operational check System                        *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.3.       Perform System leak check                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.4.       Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.28.5.       Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.28.6.       Bleed System                                    *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.7.       Drain System                                                                                                               -         -         -         -
A19.28.8.       Purge system                                    *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.9.       Service system                                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A19.28.10.      Procedures for cleaning components              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.11.      Remove components
A19.28.11.1.    Oxygen regulator                                *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.11.2.    Converter                                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.11.3.    Fill, Build-up & Vent Valve                     *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.11.4.    Heat Exchangers                                                                                                            -         -         -         -

                                                                        281
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 19
                                                     E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                              Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.28.11.5.    Drain Valve                                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.28.11.6.    Distribution Tubes/Hoses                      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.11.7.    Manual Shut-off Valve                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.28.11.8.    Other system components                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.28.12.      Install components
A19.28.12.1.    Oxygen regulator                              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.12.2.    Converter                                     *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.12.3.     Fill, Build-up & Vent Valve                  *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.12.4.    Heat Exchangers                                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.12.5.    Drain Valve                                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A19.28.12.6.    Distribution Tubes/Hoses                      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.28.12.7.    Manual Shut-off Valve                                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A19.28.12.8.    Other system components                                                                                                  -         -         -         -
A19.29.         POWER FEEDER DUCT COOLING SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.29.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.29.2.       Operational Check System                      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.29.3.       Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.29.4.       Inspect System Components                               *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.29.5.       Replace Primary/Alternate Fans                *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.29.6.       Replace Duct Overheat/Limit Switch                                                                                       -         -         -         -
A19.29.7.       Replace/Repair Indication Panel                                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.30.         ANTENNA PEDESTAL ENVIRONMENTAL
                CONTROL SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-3A-2-21-1
A19.30.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A19.30.2.       Operational Check System                      *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.30.3.       Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.30.4.       Inspect System Components                               *                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.30.5.       Rotodome Entry/Exit Procedures                *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.30.6.       Raising and Lowering Equipment                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A19.30.7.       7-Level FOD Inspection                                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A19.30.8.       Remove Components
A19.30.8.1.     ECS Age Switch                                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A19.30.8.2.     Duct Sections                                 *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.30.8.3.     Fan                                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A19.30.8.4.     Recirculation Valve                                                                                                      -         -         -         -
A19.30.8.5.     Inlet/Outlet Door Actuator                    *                                                                          -         -         -         -


                                                                      282
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 19
                                               E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                        Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A19.30.8.6.     Inlet/Outlet Door Duct                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A19.30.8.7.     Other System Components                                                                                            -         -         -         -
A19.30.9.       Install Components
A19.30.9.1.     ECS Age Switch                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A19.30.9.2.     Duct Sections                           *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.30.9.3.     Fan                                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.30.9.4.     Recirculation Valve                                                                                                -         -         -         -
A19.30.9.5.     Inlet/Outlet Door Actuator              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A19.30.9.6.     Inlet/Outlet Door Duct                                                                                             -         -         -         -
A19.30.9.7.     Other System Components                                                                                            -         -         -         -




                                                                283
                                                                                                                                            Attachment 19
      E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                 284
                                     Attachment 19
                                                          E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                             Tasks                                                                    Indicate
                                                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 20
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 20 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain E-8 aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ AMC/A4MMT,
402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; or call DSN 576-4787. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training
Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A20.1.            ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL SYSTEM
                  TR: JIMIS 21-00
A20.1.1.          Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A20.1.2.          Inspect                                                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.1.3.          Troubleshoot                                                          *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.1.4.          Locate System Components                                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.5.          ECS operational checks                                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.6.         Perform ECS Leak Checks                                     *                                                                           -         -         -         -
A20.1.7.          LCS Head Pressure Service                                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.9.          LCS Service                                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A20.1.10.        Remove ECS Distribution Components
                 TR: JIMIS 21-20
A20.1.10.1.      Ducts                                                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.10.2.       PME Draw Through Fan                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A20.1.10.3.      Gasper Fan                                                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A20.1.10.4.       Other System Components                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.1.11.        Install ECS Distribution Components
                 TR: JIMIS 21-20
A20.1.11.1.       Ducts                                                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.11.2.       PME Draw Through Fan                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A20.1.11.3.       Gasper Fan                                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.1.11.4.       Other System Components                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.1.12.        Remove ECS Pressurization Control Components
                 TR: JIMIS 21-30
A20.1.12.1.      Waveguide Pressure System Components                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A20.1.12.2.      LCS Head Pressure System Components                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A20.1.12.3.       Outflow Valve                                               */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.1.12.4.       Pressure Controller                                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.12.5.       Pressurization Control Panel                                */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
 A20.1.13.       Install ECS Pressurization Control Components
                 TR: JIMIS 21-30
A20.1.13.1.       Waveguide Pressure System Components                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A20.1.13.2.       LCS Head Pressure System Components                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A20.1.13.3.       Outflow Valve                                               */R                                                                         -         -        -          -

                                                                                      285
                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 20
                                                    E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                             Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                        Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                     A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                 5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A20.1.13.4.     Pressure Controller                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.13.5.     Pressurization Control Panel                 */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.1.14.       Remove ECS Heating Systems
                TR: JIMIS 21-40
A20.1.14.1.     Auxiliary Crew Heat Valve                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A20.1.14.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A20.1.15.       Install ECS Heating Systems
                TR: JIMIS 21-40
A20.1.15.1.     Auxiliary Crew Heat Valve                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A20.1.15.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                 -         -         -         -
A20.1.16.       Remove ECS Cooling Components
                TR: JIMIS 21-50
A20.1.16.1.     Turbo Fan                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A20.1.16.2.     Equipment Cooling Blower                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.16.3.     Equipment Cooling Blower Dump Valve                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.1.16.4.     Other System Components                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A20.1.17.       Install ECS Cooling Components
                TR: JIMIS 21-50
A20.1.17.1.      Turbo Fan                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A20.1.17.2.     Equipment Cooling Blower                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.17.3.     Equipment Cooling Blower Dump Valve                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.1.17.4.     Other System Components                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A20.1.18.       Remove ECS Temperature Control Components
                TR: JIMIS 21-60
A20.1.18.1.     Cabin Zone Temperature Controller            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.18.2.     Cockpit Air Temperature Regulator                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.1.18.3.     ACM                                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.18.4.     Water Separator                              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A20.1.18.5.     Vapor Cycle Unit                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.18.6.     Evaporator Fan                               */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.1.18.7.     Condenser Fan                                */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.1.18.8.     Other System Components                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A20.1.19.       Install ECS Temperature Control Components
                TR: JIMIS 21-60
A20.1.19.1.     Cabin Zone Temperature Controller            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.19.2.     Cockpit Air Temperature Regulator                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.1.19.3.     ACM                                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.19.4.     Water Separator                              *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A20.1.19.5.     Vapor Cycle Unit                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.19.6.     Evaporator Fan                               */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.1.19.7.     Condenser Fan                                */R                                                                         -         -        -          -


                                                                     286
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 20
                                                        E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A20.1.19.8.     Other System Components                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.1.20.       Remove ECS Moisture Control Components
                TR: JIMIS 21-70
A20.1.20.1.     Heater                                           */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.1.20.2.     Controller                                       */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.1.20.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.1.21.       Install ECS Moisture Control Components
                TR: JIMIS 21-70
A20.1.21.1.      Heater                                          */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.1.21.2.     Controller                                       */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.1.21.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                     -         -         -         -
A20.1.22.       Remove ECS Liquid Cooling Components                                                                                        -         -         -         -
                TR: JIMIS 21-70
A20.1.22.1.     Filter                                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.22.2.     Filter Assembly                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.1.22.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.1.23.       Install ECS Liquid Cooling Components                                                                                       -         -         -         -
                TR: JIMIS 21-70
A20.1.23.1.      Filter                                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.1.23.2.     Filter Assembly                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.1.23.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.2.          ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM
                TR: JIMIS 24-00
A20.2.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A20.2.2.        AC Operational Check                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.2.3.        External Power Operational Check                                                                                            -         -         -         -
A20.2.4.        Inspect                                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.2.5.        Troubleshoot                                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.2.6.        Service IDG                                      */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.2.7.        Locate System Components                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.2.8.        Remove Generator Drive Components
                TR: JIMIS 24-10
A20.2.8.1.      IDG                                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.2.8.2.      Fin Type Oil Cooler                              */R                                                                        -         -         -         -
A20.2.8.3.      Filters                                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.2.8.4.      Other System Components                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.2.9.        Install Generator Drive Components
                TR: JIMIS 24-10
A20.2.9.1.       IDG                                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.2.9.2.      Fin Type Oil Cooler                              */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.2.9.3.      Filters                                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.2.9.4.      Other System Components                                                                                                      -         -        -          -

                                                                         287
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 20
                                                       E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                         Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A20.2.10.       Remove AC Generation System Components
                TR: JIMIS 24-20
A20.2.10.1.     Generator Control Unit                                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.2.10.2.     Frequency and Load Control Unit                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.2.10.3.     Frequency Referencing Automatic Paralleling Unit                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A20.2.10.4.     Other System Components                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.2.11.       Install AC Generation System Components
                TR: JIMIS 24-20
A20.2.11.1.      Generator Control Unit                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.2.11.2.     Frequency and Load Control Unit                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.2.11.3.     Frequency Referencing Automatic Paralleling Unit                                                                                    -         -         -         -
A20.2.11.4.     Other System Components                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.2.12.       Remove DC power System Components
                TR: JIMIS 24-30
A20.2.12.1.     Transformer Rectifier                                    */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.2.12.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.2.13.       Install DC power System Components
                TR: JIMIS 24-30
A20.2.13.1.     Transformer Rectifier                                    */R                                                                        -         -         -         -
A20.2.13.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.2.14.       Remove External Power System Components
                TR: JIMIS 24-40
A20.2.14.1.     Buss Power Control Unit                                  */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.2.14.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.2.15.       Install External Power System Components                                                                                            -         -         -         -
                TR: JIMIS 24-40
A20.2.15.1.     Buss Power Control Unit                                  */R                                                                        -         -         -         -
A20.2.15.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.2.16.       Remove Electrical Load Distribution System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 24-50
A20.2.16.1.     60 Hz Converter                                          */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.2.16.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.2.17.       Install Electrical Load Distribution System Components
                TR: JIMIS 24-50
A20.2.17.1.      60 Hz Converter                                         */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.2.17.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.3.          EQUIPMENT FURNISHINGS SYSTEM
                TR: JIMIS 25-00
A20.3.1.        Bailout Warning System Operational Check                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A20.3.2.        Remove Equipment Furnishings System Components
                TR: JIMIS 25-60
A20.3.2.1.      Bailout Warning Bell                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.3.2.2.      Other System Components                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.3.3.        Install Equipment Furnishings System Components
                TR: JIMIS 25-60
                                                                                 288
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 20
                                                      E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                               Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A20.3.3.1.      Bailout Warning Bell                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A20.3.3.2.      Other System Components                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A20.4.          FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM
                TR:JIMIS 26-00
A20.4.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A20.4.2.        Inspect                                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.4.3.        Troubleshoot                                             *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.4.4.        Locate System Components                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.5.        Engine Fire Detection Operational Checkout     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.6.        APU Fire Detection Operational Checkout        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.7.        Remove Fire Detection System Components                                                                                   -         -         -         -
                TR: JIMIS 26-10
A20.4.7.1.      Sensing Elements                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.7.2.      Detection Control Units                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A20.4.7.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A20.4.8.        Install Fire Detection System Components
                TR: JIMIS 26-10
A20.4.8.1.       Sensing Elements                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.8.2.      Detection Control Units                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A20.4.8.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A20.4.9.        Remove Fire Extinguishing System Components
                TR: JIMIS 26-20
A20.4.9.1.      Engine Fire Extinguisher Bottle                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.9.2.      Engine Fire Bottle Cartridge                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.9.3.      APU Fire Extinguisher Bottle                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.9.4.      APU Fire Bottle Cartridge                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.9.5.      Other System Components                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A20.4.10.       Install Fire Extinguishing System Components
                TR: JIMIS 26-20
A20.4.10.1.      Engine Fire Extinguisher Bottle               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.10.2.     Engine Fire Bottle Cartridge                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.10.3.     APU Fire Extinguisher Bottle                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.10.4.     APU Fire Bottle Cartridge                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.4.10.5.     Other System Components                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A20.5.          FLIGHT CONTROLS SYSTEM
                TR: JIMIS 27-00
A20.5.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A20.5.2.        Inspect                                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.5.3.        Troubleshoot                                             *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.5.4.        Locate System Components                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.5.5.        Operational Checkouts                                                                                                      -         -        -          -


                                                                       289
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 20
                                                         E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                  Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A20.5.6.        Remove Flight Controls System Components                                                                                     -         -         -         -
                TR: JIMIS 24-10 through 24-80
A20.5.6.1.      Stabilizer Trim Limit Switch                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A20.5.6.2.      Leading Edge Flap Limit Switches                  */R
A20.5.6.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A20.5.7.        Install Flight Controls System Components                                                                                    -         -         -         -
                TR: JIMIS 24-10 through 24-80
A20.5.7.1.       Stabilizer Trim Limit Switch                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.5.7.2.      Leading Edge Flap Limit Switches                  */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.5.7.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A20.6.          FUEL SYSTEM
                TR: JIMIS 28-00
A20.6.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.6.2.        Inspect                                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.6.3.        Troubleshoot                                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.6.4.        Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.6.5.        Operational Checkouts                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.6.6.        Remove Fuel System Components                                                                                                -         -         -         -
                TR: JIMIS 28-10 through 28-40
A20.6.6.1.      UARRSI Slipway Light                              */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.6.6.2.      Dump Chute Actuator                               */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.6.6.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A20.6.7.        Install Fuel System Components
                TR: JIMIS 28-10 through 28-40
A20.6.7.1.      UARRSI Slipway Light                              */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.6.7.2.      Dump Chute Actuator                               */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.6.7.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A20.7.          ICE AND RAIN PROTECTION SYSTEM
                TR: JIMIS 30-00
A20.7.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.7.2.        Inspect                                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.7.3.        Troubleshoot                                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.7.4.        Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.7.5.        Window Heat Operational Check                     */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.7.6.        Operational Checkouts                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.7.7.        Remove Airfoil Ice and Rain Protection System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 30-10
A20.7.7.1.      Anti-Ice Shutoff Valve
A20.7.7.2.      Control Panel                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.7.7.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A20.7.8.        Install Airfoil Ice and Rain Protection System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 30-10
                                                                          290
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 20
                                                        E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                        Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                           Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                            5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A20.7.8.1.      Anti-Ice Shutoff Valve                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.7.8.2.      Control Panel                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A20.7.8.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A20.7.9.        Remove Air Intake Ice and Rain Protection System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 30-20
A20.7.9.1.      Q-Spring Inlet Heater                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A20.7.9.2.      Ram Air Scoop Anti-Icing Valve                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.7.9.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A20.7.10.       Install Air Intake Ice and Rain Protection System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 30-20
A20.7.10.1.      Q-Spring Inlet Heater                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.7.10.2.     Ram Air Scoop Anti-Icing Valve                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.7.10.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A20.7.11.       Remove Window and Windshield Ice and Rain
                Protection System Components
                TR: JIMIS 30-30
A20.7.11.1.     Window Heat Control Unit                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.7.11.2.     Window Heat Control Panel                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.7.11.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A20.7.12.       Install Window and Windshield Ice and Rain Protection
                System Components
                TR: JIMIS 30-30
A20.7.12.1.      Window Heat Control Unit                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.7.12.2.     Window Heat Control Panel                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.7.12.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A20.8.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEM                                                                                                                -         -         -         -
                TR: JIMIS 32-00
A20.8.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A20.8.2.        Inspect                                                           *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.8.3.        Troubleshoot                                                      *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.8.4.        Locate System Components                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.8.5.        Remove Landing Gear Extension and Retraction System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 32-30
A20.8.5.1.      Safety Switch                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A20.8.5.2.      Other System Components                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A20.8.6.        Install Landing Gear Extension and Retraction System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 32-30
A20.8.6.1.       Safety Switch                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A20.8.6.2.      Other System Components                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A20.8.7.        Remove Landing Gear Wheels and Brakes System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 32-40
                                                                                291
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 20
                                                      E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                   Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A20.8.7.1.      Anti-skid Control Shield                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.8.7.2.      Anti-skid Detector                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.8.7.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.8.8.        Install Landing Gear Wheels and Brakes System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 32-40
A20.8.8.1.       Anti-skid Control Shield                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.8.8.2.      Anti-skid Detector                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.8.8.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.8.9.        Remove Landing Gear Position and Warning System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 32-60
A20.8.9.1.      Position Switches                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.8.9.2.      Lock Switches                                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.8.9.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.8.10.       Install Landing Gear Position and Warning System
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 32-60
A20.8.10.1.      Position Switches                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.8.10.2.     Lock Switches                                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.8.10.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.9.          LIGHTING SYSTEM
                TR: JIMIS 33-00
A20.9.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A20.9.2.        Inspect                                                      *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.9.3.        Troubleshoot                                                 *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.9.4.        Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.9.5.        Operational Checkouts                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A20.9.6.        Remove Flight Compartment Lighting Components
                TR: JIMIS 33-10
A20.9.6.1.      Lighting Control Panels                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.9.6.2.      Other System Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.9.7.        Install Flight Compartment Lighting Components
                TR: JIMIS 33-10
A20.9.7.1.      Lighting Control Panels                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.9.7.2.      Other System Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.9.8.        Remove PME Compartment Lighting and Cargo
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 33-20 and 33-30
A20.9.8.1.      Lighting Control Panels                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.9.8.2.      Lighting Ballasts                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A20.9.8.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.9.9.        Install PME and Cargo Compartment Lighting
                Components
                TR: JIMIS 33-20 and 33-30

                                                                           292
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 20
                                                      E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A20.9.9.1.      Lighting Control Panels                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.9.9.2.      Lighting Ballasts                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A20.9.9.3.      Other System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.9.10.       Remove Exterior Lighting System Components
                TR: JIMIS 33-40
A20.9.10.1.     Exterior Lighting Control Panel                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.9.10.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.9.11.       Install Exterior Lighting System Components
                TR: JIMIS 33-40
A20.9.11.1.      Exterior Lighting Control Panel                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.9.11.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.9.12.       Remove Emergency Exit Lighting System Components
                TR: JIMIS 33-50
A20.9.12.1.     Emergency Strip Light/Marker Light                  */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.9.12.2.     Power Supply                                        */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.9.12.3.     Power Pack                                          */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.9.12.4.     Battery                                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.9.12.5.     Other System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.9.13.       Install Emergency Exit Lighting System Components
                TR: JIMIS 33-50
A20.9.13.1.      Emergency Strip Light/Marker Light                 */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.9.13.2.     Power Supply                                        */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.9.13.3.     Power Pack                                          */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.9.13.4.     Battery                                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.9.13.5.     Other System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.10.         OXYGEN SYSTEM
                TR: JIMIS 35-00
A20.10.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.10.2.       Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.10.3.       Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.10.4.       Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.10.5.       Operational Checkouts                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.10.6.       Purge System                                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.10.7.       Drain/Service System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.10.8.       Leak Check                                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.10.9.       Remove Oxygen System Components
                TR: JIMIS 35-10
A20.10.9.1.     Liquid Oxygen Converter                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.10.9.2.     Oxygen Pressure Demand Regulator                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.10.9.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.10.10.      Install Oxygen System Components
                TR: JIMIS 35-10

                                                                            293
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 20
                                                         E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A20.10.10.1.    Liquid Oxygen Converter                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.10.10.2.    Oxygen Pressure Demand Regulator                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.10.10.3.    Other System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.11.         PNEUMATIC SYSTEM
                TR: JIMIS 36-00
A20.11.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.11.2.       Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.11.3.       Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.11.4.       Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.5.       Operational Checkouts                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.6.       Lock Out Bleed Air/Firewall Shutoff Valve           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.7.       Remove Distribution System Components
                TR: JIMIS 36-10
A20.11.7.1.     Precooler                                           */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.11.7.2.     Flow Topping Sensor                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.7.3.     Bleed air Pressure Regulator Valve                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.7.4.     Firewall Shutoff Valve                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.8.       Install Distribution System Components
                TR: JIMIS 36-10
A20.11.8.1.      Precooler                                          */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.11.8.2.     Flow Topping Sensor                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.8.3.     Bleed air Pressure Regulator Valve                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.8.4.     Firewall Shutoff Valve                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.9.       Remove Indicating System Components
                TR: JIMIS 36-20
A20.11.9.1.     Bleed Air Leak Detection Control Unit                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.9.2.     Bleed Air Leak Sensor Elements                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.9.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.11.10.      Install Indicating System Components
                TR: JIMIS 36-20
A20.11.10.1.     Bleed Air Leak Detection Control Unit                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A20.11.10.2.    Bleed Air Leak Sensor Elements                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.11.10.3.    Other System Components                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.12.         AIRBORNE AUXILIARY POWER SYSTEM
                TR: JIMIS 49-00 through 49-90
A20.12.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A20.12.2.       Inspect                                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.12.3.       Troubleshoot                                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.12.4.       Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.12.5.       Operational Checkouts                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.12.6.       Remove Airborne Auxiliary Power System Components
                TR: JIMIS 49-00 through 49-90

                                                                            294
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 20
                                                     E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A20.12.6.1.     Battery Charger                                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.12.6.2.     Bleed Air Shutoff Valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A20.12.6.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A20.12.7.       Install Airborne Auxiliary Power System Components
                TR: JIMIS 49-00 through 49-90
A20.12.7.1.      Battery Charger                                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.12.7.2.     Bleed Air Shutoff Valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A20.12.7.3.     Other System Components                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A20.13.         DOOR SYSTEM
                TR: 52-00 through 52-70
A20.13.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.13.2.       Inspect                                                        *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.13.3.       Troubleshoot                                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.13.4.       Locate System Components                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.13.5.       Operational Checkouts                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A20.13.6.       Remove Door System Components
                TR: 52-00 through 52-70
A20.13.6.1.     Door Warning Switches                                */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.13.6.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A20.13.7.       Install Door System Components
                TR: 52-00 through 52-70
A20.13.7.1.      Door Warning Switches                               */R                                                                         -         -        -          -
A20.13.7.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A20.14.         ENGINE SYSTEM
                TR: 70-00 through 80-10
A20.14.1.       Operational Fundamentals                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.14.2.       Inspect                                                        *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.14.3.       Troubleshoot                                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A20.13.4.       Locate System Components                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.14.5.       Operational Checkouts                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A20.14.6.       Remove Exhaust System Components
                TR: 70-00 through 80-10
A20.14.6.1.     Thrust Reverser Warning Switches                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.14.6.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A20.14.7.       Install Exhaust System Components
                TR: 70-00 through 80-10
A20.14.7.1.      Thrust Reverser Warning Switches                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A20.14.7.2.     Other System Components                                                                                                          -         -        -          -




                                                                             295
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 20
      E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                 296
                                     Attachment 20
                                                        E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core            3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                             Tasks                                                                    Indicate
                                                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC

ATTACHMENT 21
NOTE 1: In addition to attachment 2, the tasks and knowledge in attachment 21 will be performed by personnel assigned to maintain E-4B aircraft.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is not available, but must be accomplished when capability
becomes available.
NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through Unit Training Managers to the MAJCOM Maintenance Training Manager @ HQ AMC/A4MMT,
402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308; or call DSN 576-4787. MAJCOM Training and Functional Managers forward inputs to the AETC Training
Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A21.1.            AC POWER SYSTEM –AC
                  GENERATION/REGULATION
                  TR: 1E-4B-2-24-20/21-00
A21.1.1.          Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                                -        -         -          -
A21.1.2.          Operational Check of System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.1.3.          Troubleshoot System                                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.1.4.          Locate System Components                                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.1.5.          Inspect System Components                                             *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.1.6.         Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.1.6.1.        Integrated Drive Generator (IDG)                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.1.6.2.        IDG Oil Temperature indicator                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.1.6.3.       APU Driven Generator                                        *                                                                           -         -         -         -
A21.1.6.4.        Step-Down Transformer                                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.1.6.5.        Step-Down Transformer Blower Control Relays                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.2.           AC POWER SYSTEM-MANUAL/AUTOMATIC
                 CONTROL
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-24-22/23-00
A21.2.1.         Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
 A21.2.2.        Operational Check of System                                 *                                                                           -         -         -         -
A21.2.3.          Troubleshoot System                                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.2.4.          Locate System Components                                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.2.5.          Inspect System Components                                             *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.2.6.         Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.2.6.1.       Auxilary Power Breaker Close Protect Relay                                                                                              -         -         -         -
A21.2.6.2.        Essential Bus Selector Relay                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.2.6.3.        Generator Control Module                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.2.6.4.        Generator/Bus Tie/Auxilary Power Breaker                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.2.6.5.        Split System Breaker                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.2.6.6.        Engine Generator/Auxilary Generator/Bus Control Unit        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
 A21.2.6.7.      Drive Control Unit                                          *                                                                           -         -         -         -
A21.2.6.8.        Current Transformer                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.3.           AC POWER SYSTEM-
                 ANNUNCIATION/INDICATION
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-24-27/28-00
                                                                                      297
                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                               Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                          Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                       A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                  Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                   5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.3.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.3.2.        Operational Check of System                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.3.3.        Troubleshoot System                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.3.4.        Locate System Components                       *                                                                          -         -         -         -
A21.3.5.        Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.3.6.        Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.3.6.1.      AC Power Control Module                                                                                                   -         -         -         -
A21.3.6.2.      Essential AC Bus Module                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.3.6.3.      Essential Power Failure Relay                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.3.6.4.      Maintenance Annunciator Module                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.3.6.5.      Maitenance Annuniator Relays                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.3.6.6.      AC Auxilary Power Ammeters                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.3.6.7.      AC Load Meters                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.3.6.8.      AC Meters Module                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.3.6.9.      Main AC Volt and Frequency Meters                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.4.          AC POWER SYSTEM-STANDBY 115 VAC POWER
                GENERATION SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-29-00
A21.4.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.4.2.        Operational Check of System                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.4.3.        Troubleshoot System                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.4.4.        Locate System Components                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.4.5.        Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.4.6.        Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.4.6.1.      Static Inverter                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.4.6.2.      Static Inverter Control Relay                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.5.          MAIN 28 VDC POWER-GENERATION SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-30/31-00
A21.5.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.5.2.        Operational Check of System                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.5.3.        Troubleshoot System                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.5.4.        Locate System Components                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.5.5.        Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.        Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.5.6.1.      APU Battery                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.2.      APU Battery Bus Control Relay                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.3.      APU Battery Charger                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.4.      APU Battery Charger Interlock Relay                                                                                        -         -        -          -


                                                                       298
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.5.6.5.      APU Battery Control Blocking Diodes                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.6.      APU Battery Charger Enable Relay                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.7.      APU Battery Charger Disable Relay                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.8.      APU Battery Cooling Fan                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.9.      APU Battery Heating Pad                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.10.     APU Battery Thermal Switch                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.11.     Main Aircraft Battery                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.12.     Main Aircraft Battery/Battery Bus Transfer Relays                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.5.6.13.     Main Aircraft Battery Charger                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.6.          MAIN 28 VDC POWER-TRANSFORMER
                RECTIFIER UNITS
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-32-00
A21.6.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.6.2.        Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.6.3.        Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.6.4.        Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.6.5.        Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.6.6.        Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.6.6.1.      DC Bus Isolation Panel                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.6.6.2.      DC Bus Isolation Relays                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.6.6.3.      Essential Auxilary Transformer Rectifier Units                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.6.6.4.      Main Transformer Rectifier Units                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.7.          DC STANDBY POWER SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-33-00
A21.7.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.7.2.        Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.7.3.        Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.7.4.        Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.7.5.        Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.7.6.        Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.7.6.1.      Standby Power Relays                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.7.6.2.      Voltage Booster                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.8.          MAIN DC METERS/INDICATION
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-34-00
A21.8.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.8.2.        Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.8.3.        Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.8.4.        Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.8.5.        Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -


                                                                            299
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 21
                                                       E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.8.6.        Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.8.6.1.      APU Battery Meter Shunt                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.8.6.2.      Main Aircraft Battery Meter Shunt                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.8.6.3.      DC Meters module                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.8.6.4.      Main DC Voltmeter/Ammeter                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.9.          EXTERNAL POWER
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-41-00
A21.9.1.        Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.9.2.        Operational Check of System                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.9.3.        Troubleshoot System                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.9.4.        Locate System Components                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.9.5.        Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.9.6.        Connect/Disconnect External Power               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.9.7.        Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.9.7.1.      External Power Contactor                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.9.7.2.      External Power EMP Filter Assembly              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.9.7.3.      External Power Fault Protector                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.9.7.4.      External Power Fault Protector Fuses            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.9.7.5.      External Power Receptacle                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.9.7.6.      Ground Power Sensing Relays                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.10.         AIRPLANE POWER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-50-00
A21.10.1.       Troubleshoot System                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.10.2.       Remove/Install/Op Check of Circuit Breakers     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.10.3.       Main 115 VAC Power Distribution System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-51-00
A21.10.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.10.3.2.     Operational Check of System                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.10.3.3.     Locate System Components                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.10.3.4.     Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.10.3.5.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.10.3.5.1.   Electrical Load Control Unit                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.10.3.5.2.   Flight Bus Control Relays                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.10.4.       Main 26/28 VAC Power Distribution System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-53-00
A21.10.4.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.10.4.2.     Operational Check of System                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.10.4.3.     Locate System Components                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.10.4.4.     Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.10.4.5.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components

                                                                        300
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 21
                                                       E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                  Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.10.4.5.1.   Main 26/28 VAC Transformers                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.10.5.       Main 28 VDC Power Distribution System                                                                                        -         -         -         -
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-54-00
A21.10.5.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.10.6.       Electronic Power Distribution System                                                                                         -         -         -         -
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-58-00
A21.10.6.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.10.6.2.     Remove/Install/Op Check Radio Bus Relays                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.11.         MISSION POWER SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-60-00
A21.11.1.       Mission 115 VAC Power
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-61-00
A21.11.1.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.11.1.2.     Operational Check of System                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.1.3.     Troubleshoot System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.1.4.     Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.11.1.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.11.1.6.1.   Load Shed Control Relay Assembly                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.11.1.6.2.   Mission AC Power Control Module                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.11.2.       Mission 10 VDC Power
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-62-00
A21.11.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.11.2.2.     Operational Check of System                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.2.4.     Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.2.5.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.11.3.       Remove/Install/Op Check Components                                                                                           -         -         -         -
A21.11.3.1.     Mission 10 VDC Power Supply                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.11.3.2.     Mission 10 VDC Voltage and Reference Comparator                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.11.4.       Mission 28 VDC Power
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-62-00
A21.11.4.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.11.4.2.     Operational Check of System                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.4.4.     Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.4.5.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.11.4.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.11.4.6.1.   28 VDC Voltage and Reference Comparator                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.11.4.6.2.   Mission 28 VDC Transformer Rectifier                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.11.4.6.3.   Mission DC Power Control Module                                                                                               -         -        -          -


                                                                          301
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 21
                                                     E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.11.5.       Mission 28 VAC Power
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-64-00
A21.11.5.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.11.5.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.5.3.                                                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.5.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.5.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.11.5.5.     Remove/Install/Op Check Mission 28 VAC                                                                                          -         -        -          -
                Transformer
A21.11.6.       Mission 115 VAC 60 Hz Power
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-65-00
A21.11.6.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.11.6.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.6.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.6.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.6.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.11.6.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check 60 Hz Frequency Converter                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.11.7.       Mission Power Meters/Indication
                TR: 1E-4B-2-24-66-00
A21.11.7.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.11.7.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.7.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.7.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.11.7.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.11.8.       Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.11.8.1.     External AC Power Monitor                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.11.8.2.     Remote Transducer                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.12.         LIGHTING SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-33-00-00
A21.12.1.       Panel Lights
                TR: 1E-4B-2-33-11/12/13/14-00
A21.12.1.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.12.1.6.1.   Master Dim and Test Modules                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.2.   Master Dim and Test Module Circuit Cards            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.3.   Master Dim and Test Module Relays                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.4.   Pilots Background Light Control Transformer                                                                                     -         -        -          -


                                                                            302
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 21
                                                        E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                         Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.12.1.6.5.    Pilots Overhead Panel Override/Storm Switch                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.6.    Panel Light Dimmer/Transformers                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.7.    Lightshield/Floodlight Ballasts                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.8.    Panel Indicator Light Assembly/Electronic Module/Lens   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.9.    Lighted Pushbutton Switches                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.10.   Pilots Indicator Lights Dim/Test Switch                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.11.   Relamp Panel Floodlights-Incandescent/Fluorescent                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.12.   Relamp/Replace Lightplates                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.13.   Flight Engineer Light Control Module                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.12.1.6.14.   Navigator Dim and Test Panel                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.        Interior Lights
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-33-23/24/28/31-00
A21.12.2.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.2.      Operational Check of System                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.3.      Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.4.      Locate System Components                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.5.      Inspect System Components                                         *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.      Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.12.2.6.1.    Servicing Lights                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.2.    Adjustable Spotlights                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.3.    Soffit Lights                                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.4.    Adjustable/Dual Reading Lights                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.5.    Floodlights                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.6.    Portable Work/Utility Lights                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.7.    Bunk Lights                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.8.    Work Lights                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.9.    Interior/Cabin Light Control Panels                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.10.   Passenger Information Signs                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.11.   Passenger Information Sign Control Panel                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.12.   Evacuation Alert Panel                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.13.   Stairwell Dome Lights                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.14.   Stair Tread Lights                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.15.   General Illumination Lights                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.16.   Service Compartment Lights                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.12.2.6.17.   Relay Boxes                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.        External Lights
                 TR: 121E-4B-2-33-40/41/42/43/44/46/47-00
A21.12.3.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                            -         -        -          -

                                                                                 303
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 21
                                                       E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.12.3.2.      Operational Check of System                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.3.      Troubleshoot System                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.4.      Locate System Components                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.5.      Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.      Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.12.3.6.1.    Wing Illumination Lights                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.2.    Wing Illumination Light Transformer                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.3.    Landing Lights                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.4.    Landing Light Transformer                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.5.    Runway Turnoff Lights                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.6.    Tail Navigation Lights                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.7.    Wingtip Navigation Lights                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.8.    Wingtip Navigation Light Transformer                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.9.    Upper Anticollision/Beacon Light                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.10.   Lower Anticollision/Beacon Light                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.11.   Tail Strobe Lights                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.12.   Tail Strobe Light Power Supply                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.13.   Cargo Handling Area Lights                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.14.   Cargo Handling Area Light Transformer                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.6.15.   Aerial Refueling Lights                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.      Emergency Lights
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-33-51-00
A21.12.3.7.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.2.    Operational Check of System                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.3.    Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.4.    Locate System Components                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.5.    Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.6.    Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.12.3.7.6.1. Emergency Lights Control Panel                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.6.2. Overwing Emergency Lights                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.6.3. Power Supply Unit                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.6.4. Main Entry Doorframe Lights                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.6.5. Door Mounted Lights                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.12.3.7.6.6. Entryway and Ceiling Light Modules                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.13.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEM
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-32-00-00
A21.13.1.        Ground Safety Relay System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-32-09-02
A21.13.1.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -

                                                                        304
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.13.1.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.1.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.1.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.13.1.6.     Put Air/Ground Relay System in Air Mode                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.13.1.7.     Remove/Install Ground Safety Master and Control                                                                                 -         -        -          -
                Relays
A21.13.2.       Anti-Skid System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-32-42-00
A21.13.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.13.2.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.2.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.2.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.13.2.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.13.2.6.1.   Anti-Skid On-Off Switch Panel                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.13.2.6.2.   Anti-Skid Landing Gear Tilt Input Module                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.13.2.6.3.   Anti-Skid Control Unit                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.2.6.4.   Anti-Skid Transducer                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.2.6.5.   Anti-Skid Fault Annunciator Module                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.13.2.6.6.   Anti-Skid Fault Annunciator Printed Circuit Cards                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.13.3.       Autobrake System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-32-43-00
A21.13.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.13.3.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.3.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.3.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.13.3.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.13.3.6.1.   Autobrake Control Unit                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.13.3.6.2.   Autobrake Selector Module                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.13.4.       Brake Temperature Monitoring System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-32-46-00
A21.13.4.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.13.4.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.4.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.4.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.13.4.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.13.4.6.1.   Brake Temperature Sensor                                                                                                        -         -        -          -

                                                                            305
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                       Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                               A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                               3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                          Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                           5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.13.4.6.2.    Brake Temperature Indicator Unit                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.13.5.        Nose Wheel Steering System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-32-51-00
A21.13.5.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.13.5.2.      Troubleshoot System                                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.5.3.      Locate System Components                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.5.4.      Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.13.5.5.      Remove/Install/Op Check Nose Gear Squat Switch                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.13.6.        Body Gear Steering System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-32-53-00
A21.13.6.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.13.6.2.      Troubleshoot System                                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.6.3.      Locate System Components                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.6.4.      Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.13.6.5.      Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.13.6.5.1.    Body Gear Steering Command Transducer                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.13.6.5.2.    Body Gear Steering Electronic Control Unit                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.13.6.5.3.    Body Gear Steering Arming Switch                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.13.6.5.4.    Body Gear Steering Actuator Lock Switch                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.        Landing Gear Indication and Warning System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-32-61-00
A21.13.7.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.2.      Operational Check of System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.3.      Troubleshoot System                                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.4.      Locate System Components                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.5.      Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.6.      Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.13.7.6.1.    Wing and Body Gear Downlock/Uplock Sensors                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.6.2.    Wing Gear Truck Rotation Sensor and Body Gear Truck                                                                               -         -        -          -
                 Position Sensor
A21.13.7.6.3.    Nose Gear Lock Sensor and Up Sensor                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.6.4.    Landing Gear (Wing, Body, and Nose) Door Warning                                                                                  -         -        -          -
                 Sensor
A21.13.7.6.5.    Flight Engineers Landing Gear Module                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.6.6.    Primary/Alternate Landing Gear Logic Module                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.6.7.    Primary/Alternate Landing Gear Logic Module Printed   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
                 Circuit Card
A21.13.7.6.8.    Alternate Logic Module Relays                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.6.9.    Wing Gear Door Warning Sensor Actuator                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.13.7.6.10.   Body Gear Door Warning Sensor Actuator                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.14.          FLIGHT CONTROLS
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-27-00-00

                                                                               306
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 21
                                                       E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.14.1.       Trailing Edge Flap System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-27-51-00
A21.14.1.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.14.1.2.     Operational Check of System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.1.3.     Troubleshoot System                                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.1.4.     Locate System Components                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.14.1.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.14.1.6.1.   Flap Limit Switches                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.14.1.6.2.   Adjust Flap Limit Switches                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.14.1.6.3.   Flap Alternate Drive Motor                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.14.1.6.4.   Flap Alternate Drive Motor Oil Servicing              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.1.6.5.   Flap Control Lever Actuated Switches                            *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.14.2.       Automatic Speed Brake (Auto Spoilers) System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-27-62-00
A21.14.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.14.2.2.     Operational Check of System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.2.4.     Locate System Components                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.2.5.     Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.14.2.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.14.2.6.1.   Automatic Speed Brake Actuator                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.14.2.6.2.   Speed Brake Control Lever Lock                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.14.2.6.3.   Automatic Speed Brake Down Switch                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.       Leading Edge Flap System/Indicating System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-27-81/88-00
A21.14.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.2.     Operational Check of System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.4.     Locate System Components                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.5.     Inspect System Components                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.6.     Install Leading Edge Safety Locks                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.7.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.14.3.7.1.   Pneumatic Drive Unit                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.7.2.   Pneumatic Drive Unit Oil Servicing                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.7.3.   Pneumatic Drive Unit Alternate Drive Electric Motor                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.7.4.   Other Components on Pneumatic Drive Unit                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.7.5.   Leading Edge Flap Position Switches                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.14.3.7.6.   Leading Edge Flaps Display Logic Module Printed                                                                                   -         -        -          -
                Circuit Assemblies
                                                                              307
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 21
                                                       E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.15.         FIRE PROTECTION
                TR: 1E-4B-2-26-00-00
A21.15.1.       Engine/APU/Wheel Well Fire Detection
                TR: 1E-4B-2-26-10/11/15/17-00
A21.15.1.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.15.1.6.1.   Fire Detection Control Electronics Module                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.6.2.   Fire Detection Control Electronics Module Printed   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
                Circuit Cards
A21.15.1.6.3.   Fire Detection Control Module                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.6.4.   Fire Sensing Element                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.6.5.   Engine Nacelle Temperature Indicator                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.6.6.   APU Control Module                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.6.7.   APU Fire Shutdown Module                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.15.1.6.8.   Wheel Well Fire Warning Module                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.       Smoke Detection
                TR: 1E-4B-2-26-16-00
A21.15.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.15.2.6.1.   Smoke Detection System Monitor                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.6.2.   Smoke Dectection Assembly                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.6.3.   Smoke Detector Flow Switch                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.6.4.   Smoke Detector Sensor                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.6.5.   Smoke Detector Amplifier                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.15.2.6.6.   Smoke Detector Blower                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.3.       Wing Leading Edge Overheat System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-26-18-00
A21.15.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.15.3.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.3.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.3.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -


                                                                            308
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 21
                                                     E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                              Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.15.3.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.15.3.6.1.   Wing Leading Edge Overheat Detection Module                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.15.3.6.2.   Wing Leading Edge Overheat Thermal Switch                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.15.4.       15VLF/LF Winch Fire Detection System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-26-19-00
A21.15.4.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.15.4.2.     Operational Check of System                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.4.4.     Locate System Components                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.4.5.     Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.15.4.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.15.4.6.1.   VLF/LF Winch Fire Detection Module                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.15.4.6.2.   VLF/LF Thermal Switches                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.       Engine/APU Fire Extinguishing
                TR: 1E-4B-2-26-20/21/22-00
A21.15.5.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.2.     Operational Check of System                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.4.     Locate System Components                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.5.     Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.15.5.6.1.   Engine Fire Control Module                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.6.2.   Engine Squib Test Module                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.6.3.   Engine Fire Extinguisher Squib                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.6.4.   Engine Fire Extinguisher Bottle               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.6.5.   Engine Fire Extinguisher Pressure Switch                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.6.6.   Engine/APU Agent Discharge Indicator Disk                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.6.7.   APU Fire Extinguisher Bottle                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.15.5.6.8.   APU Fire Extinguisher Pressure Switch                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.16.         DOORS
                TR: 1E-4B-2-52-00-00
A21.16.1.       Forward/Aft Cargo Doors
                TR: 1E-4B-2-52-34-00
A21.16.1.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.16.1.2.     Operational Check of System                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.16.1.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.16.1.4.     Locate System Components                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.16.1.5.     Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.16.1.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.16.1.6.1.   Cargo Door Junction Boxes                                                                                                 -         -        -          -

                                                                      309
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 21
                                                        E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.16.1.6.2.   Cargo Door Sequence Switches                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.16.1.6.3.   Adjustment of Cargo Door Sequence Switches                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.16.1.6.4.   Cargo Door Control Panel                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.16.2.       On-Board Folding Airstairs
                TR: 1E-4B-2-52-61-00
A21.16.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.16.2.2.     Operational Check of System                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.16.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.16.2.4.     Locate System Components                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.16.2.5.     Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.16.2.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.16.2.6.1.   Airstairs Microswitches                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.16.2.6.2.   Adjustment of Airstairs Microswitches                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.16.2.6.3.   Airstairs Primary Pump Relay                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.16.2.6.4.   Airstairs Step Light Assembly                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.16.2.6.5.   Inboard/Outboard Switch Boxes and Junction Box                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.16.3.       Door Warning System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-52-71-00
A21.16.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.16.3.2.     Operational Check of System                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.16.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.16.3.4.     Locate System Components                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.16.3.5.     Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.16.3.6.     Remove/Install/Adjust/Op Check Door Warning                                                                                  -         -        -          -
                Switches
A21.17.         FUEL SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-28-00-00
A21.17.1.       Center Wing Tank Scavenge System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-28-15-00
A21.17.1.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.17.1.2.     Operational Check of System                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.1.3.     Troubleshoot System                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.1.4.     Locate System Components                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.17.1.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.17.1.6.1.   Scavenge Pump                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.17.1.6.2.   Scavenge Shutoff Valve Actuator                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.17.2.       Reserve and Main Tank Interconnect System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-28-16-00
A21.17.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.17.2.2.     Operational Check of System                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -


                                                                         310
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 21
                                                       E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                  Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.17.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.2.4.     Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.2.5.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.17.2.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.17.2.6.1.   Reserve Tank Transfer Valve Actuator                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.17.2.6.2.   Main Tank Transfer Valve Actuator                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.17.3.       Pressure Fueling System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-28-21-00
A21.17.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.17.3.2.     Operational Check of System                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.3.4.     Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.3.5.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.17.3.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.17.3.6.1.   Refuel Valve Control Unit                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.17.3.6.2.   Fueling Power Control Switch                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.17.3.6.3.   Fueling Power Transfer Relay                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.17.4.       Engine Fuel Feed System
                1E-4B-2-28-22-00
A21.17.4.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.17.4.2.     Operational Check of System                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.4.4.     Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.4.5.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.17.4.6.     Fuel Pump/LCS Pump Insulation Resistance Check    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.4.7.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.17.4.7.1.   Engine Fuel Shutoff Valve Actuator                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.17.4.7.2.   Engine Fuel Crossfeed Valve Actuator                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.17.5.       Air Refueling Reciever System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-28-23-00
A21.17.5.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.17.5.2.     Operational Check of System                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.5.3.     Troubleshoot System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.5.4.     Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.5.5.     Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.17.5.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.17.5.6.1.   A/R Manifold Overpressure Switch                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.17.5.6.2.   A/R Manifold Isolation Valve Actuator                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.17.5.6.3.   A/R Shutoff Pre-Check Valve Solenoid and Poppet                                                                               -         -        -          -

                                                                          311
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.17.5.6.4.   Ground Fueling Lockout Control Valve Solenoid and                                                                               -         -        -          -
                Poppet
A21.17.5.6.5.   A/R Pressure Switch                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.17.5.6.6.   Center Wing Tank A/R Fueling Valve Control Unit                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.17.5.6.7.   A/R Hydraulic Interconnect Valve Motor                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.17.6.       APU Fuel Feed System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-28-25-00
A21.17.6.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.17.6.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.6.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.6.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.6.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.17.6.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.17.6.6.1.   APU DC Boost Pump                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.17.6.6.2.   APU Fuel Shutoff Valve Actuator                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.17.6.6.3.   APU Fuel Boost Pump Control Pressure Switch                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.17.7.       Fuel Jettison System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-28-31-00
A21.17.7.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.17.7.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.7.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.7.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.7.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.17.7.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.17.7.6.1.   Center Wing Tank Jettison Valve Actuator                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.17.7.6.2.   Fuel Jettison Nozzle Valve Actuator                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.17.7.6.3.   Fuel Management Panel                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.8.       Fuel Pressure Indicating System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-28-42-00
A21.17.8.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.17.8.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.8.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.8.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.17.8.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.17.8.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Pressure Switches                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.18.         ENGINE IGNITION SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-74-00-00
A21.18.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.18.2.       Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.18.3.       Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -


                                                                            312
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 21
                                                     E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                   Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.18.4.       Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.18.5.       Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.18.6.       Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.18.6.1.     Ignition Control Module                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.18.6.2.     Standby Ignition Module                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.19.         ENGINE CONTROL SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-76-00-00
A21.19.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.19.2.       Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.19.3.       Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.19.4.       Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.19.5.       Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.19.6.       Remove/Install/Op Check Components                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.19.7.       Remove/Install/Op Check Start Lever Assembly                 *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.19.8.       Remove/Install/Op Check Start Lever Switches                 *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.20.         ENGINE EXHAUST SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-78-00-00
A21.20.1.       Thrust Reverser Control System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-78-34-00
A21.20.1.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.20.1.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.20.1.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.20.1.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.20.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.20.1.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.2.1.6.1.    Thrust Reverser Control Switch                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.2.1.6.2.    Relays/Diodes Inside Thrust Reverser Relay Panel                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.20.2.       Thrust Reverser Indicating System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-78-36-00
A21.20.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.20.2.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.20.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.20.2.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.         ICE AND RAIN PROTECTION SYSTEM
                TR: 1E-4B-2-30-00-00
A21.21.1.       Wing Thermal Anit-Icing System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-30-11-00
A21.21.1.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.21.1.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.1.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.1.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -


                                                                           313
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 21
                                                     E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.21.1.5.     Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.21.1.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.21.1.6.1.   Wing Anti-Ice Module                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.21.1.6.2.   Wing Anti-Ice Control Switch                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.21.1.6.3.   Wing Anti-Ice Valve                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.21.1.6.4.   Wing Overheat Switches                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.1.6.5.   Wing Anti-Ice Duct                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.21.2.       Nacelle Thermal Anti-Icing System
                TR:1E-4B-2-30-21-00
A21.21.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.21.2.2.     Operational Check of System                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.2.4.     Locate System Components                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.2.5.     Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.21.2.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.21.2.6.1.   Nacelle Anti-Ice Module                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.21.2.6.2.   Nacelle Anti-Ice Control Switch                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.21.2.6.3.   Nacelle Anti-Ice Control Valve                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.21.2.6.4.   Overpressure Warning Switches                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.21.2.6.5.   Engine Nacelle Anti-Icing Duct                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.21.3.       Window Anti-Icing System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-30-41-00
A21.21.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.21.3.2.     Operational Check of System                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.3.3.     Troubleshoot System                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.3.4.     Locate System Components                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.3.5.     Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.21.3.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.21.3.6.1.   Window Heat Module                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.21.3.6.2.   Window Heat Indicator Card                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.21.3.6.3.   Window Heat Controller                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.3.6.4.   Control and Overheat Thermostats                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.21.4.       Windshield Wiper System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-30-42-00
A21.21.4.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.21.4.2.     Operational Check of System                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.4.3.     Troubleshoot System                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.4.4.     Locate System Components                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.4.5.     Remove/Install/Op Check Windshield Service Control                                                                               -         -        -          -
                Module
                                                                             314
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 21
                                                        E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                         Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                 A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                             5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.21.5.        Windshield Washer System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-30-44-00
A21.21.5.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.21.5.2.      Operational Check of System                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.5.3.      Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.5.4.      Locate System Components                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.6.        Water and Toilet Drain Heater System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-30-71-00
A21.21.6.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.21.6.2.      Operational Check of System                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.6.3.      Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.6.4.      Locate System Components                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.21.6.5.      Inspect System Components                                         *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.21.6.5.      Remove/Install/Op Check Water and Toilet Drain Heater                                                                               -         -        -          -
                 Components
A21.22.          PNEUMATIC SYSTEM
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-36-00-00
A21.22.1.        Engine Bleed Air Distribution System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-36-11-00
A21.22.1.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.2.      Operational Check of System                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.3.      Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.4.      Locate System Components                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.5.      Inspect System Components                                         *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.6.      Apply Pneumatic Air                                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.7.      Perform Duct Leakage Bleed Down Test                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.8.      Perform Bleed Air Duct/Component Leak Checks            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.      Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.22.1.9.1.    Bleed Air Ducts                                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.2.    Bleed Air Duct Insulation                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.3.    Pressure Relief Valve                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.4.    Pressure Regulating Valve                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.5.    High Stage Bleed Air Valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.6.    Pt 5.4 Pressure Switch                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.7.    Pylon Bleed Air Shutoff and Pressure Regulating Valve   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.8.    ADP Pressure Compensator Pneumatic Duct and Screen                                                                                  -         -        -          -
                 Assembly
A21.22.1.9.9.    Wing Isolation Valve                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.10.   APU Check Valve                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.11.   APU Bleed Air Shutoff Valve                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.12.   APU Duct Bypass Check Valve                                                                                                         -         -        -          -


                                                                                 315
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                              A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                         Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                          5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.22.1.9.13.   Bleed Air Ground Connection Check Valve                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.22.1.9.14.   APU Duct Pressure Relief Valve                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.22.2.        Bleed Air Precooler System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-36-12-00
A21.22.2.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.22.2.2.      Operational Check of System                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.2.3.      Troubleshoot System                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.2.4.      Locate System Components                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.2.5.      Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.22.2.6.      Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.22.2.6.1.    Bleed Air Precooler                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.22.2.6.2.    Bleed Air Precooler Temperature Sensor                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.2.6.3.    Bleed Air Precooler Cooling Air Valve/Valve Filter                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.22.2.6.4.    Bleed Air Temperature Controller                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.22.3.        Engine Bleed Air Pressure Indicating System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-36-21-00
A21.22.3.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.22.3.2.      Operational Check of System                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.3.3.      Troubleshoot System                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.3.4.      Locate System Components                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.3.5.      Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.22.3.6.      Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.22.3.6.1.    Duct Pressure Transmitter                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.22.3.6.2.    Duct Pressure Indicator                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.22.4.        Engine Bleed Air Temperature Indicating System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-36-22-00
A21.22.4.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.22.4.2.      Operational Check of System                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.4.3.      Troubleshoot System                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.4.4.      Locate System Components                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.22.4.5.      Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.22.4.6.      Remove/Install/Op Check Bleed Air Overtemperature                                                                                -         -        -          -
                 Switch
A21.23.          AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
                 1E-4B-2-21-00-00
A21.23.1.        Apply/Remove Conditioned Air                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.2.        Main Distribution Manifold
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-21-00
A21.23.2.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.23.2.2.      Locate System Components                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.2.3.      Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -         -        -          -


                                                                              316
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 21
                                                       E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                   Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.23.2.4.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.23.2.4.1.   Conditioned Air Check Valve                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.2.4.2.   Ground Service Connector                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.2.4.3.   Conditioned Air Plenum Pressure Relief Valve                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.3.       Flight Compartment Conditioned Air Distribution
                TR: 1E-4B-2-21-22-00
A21.23.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.3.2.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.3.3.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.3.4.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.3.4.1.   Foot and Windshield Air Outlet Valve Assembly                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.23.3.4.2.   Overhead Outlet Valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.3.4.3.   Sill Outlet                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.3.4.4.   Muffler                                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.23.3.4.5.   Overhead Outlet Diffuser                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.3.4.6.   Restrictors                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.4.       Main and Upper Rest Area Compartment Conditioned
                Air Distribution
                TR: 1E-4B-2-21-23-00
A21.23.4.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.4.2.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.4.3.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.4.4.     Repair Air Conditioning System Ducts/Insulation              *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.4.5.     Remove/Install/Op Check Zone Rebalance Valves                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.23.5.       Individual (Gasper) Air Distribution
                TR: 1E-4B-2-21-24-00
A21.23.5.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.23.5.2.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.5.3.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.5.4.     Remove/Install/Op Check Gasper Air Outlet Valve                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.23.6.       Recirculation System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-21-25-00
A21.23.6.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.6.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.6.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.6.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.6.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.6.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.6.6.1.   Main Cabin Compartment Air Recirculation Fan                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.6.6.2.   Flight Compartment Air Recirculatioin Fan                                                                                      -         -        -          -

                                                                           317
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                          Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                  A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                              5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.23.6.6.3.   Recirculation System Check Valve                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.23.6.6.4.   Recirculation Fan Filter Element                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.7.       Ventilation System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-21-26-00
A21.23.7.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.7.2.     Operational Check of System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.7.3.     Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.7.4.     Locate System Components                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.7.5.     Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.7.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.7.6.1.   Vent Shutoff Valve                                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.7.6.2.   Vent Fan                                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.7.6.3.   Vent Check Valve                                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.23.7.6.4.   Lavatory and Galley Vent Relay                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.23.8.       AFT Lower Lobe Compartment Conditioned Air
                TR: 1E-4B-2-21-27-00
A21.23.8.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.       Pressurization Control System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-21-31-00
A21.23.9.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.2.     Operational Check of System (Electrical)                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.3.     Troubleshoot System                                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.4.     Locate System Components                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.5.     Inspect System Components                                           *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.6.     Perform Aircraft Pressurization (also use 1E-4B-2-5 for             *                                                                 -         -        -          -
                cabin leakage test)
A21.23.9.7.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.9.7.1.   Pressurization Outflow Valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.7.2.   Pressurization Outflow Valve AC Motor                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.7.3.   Pressurization Outflow Valve DC Motor                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.7.4.   Pressurization Outflow Valve Actuator Assembly                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.7.5.   Pressurization Outflow Valve Flapper Doors                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.7.6.   Cabin Pressure Controller                                           *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.7.7.   Cabin Pressure Selector Panel                                       *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.9.7.8.   Left/Right Outflow Valve Auto/Manual Relays                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A.21.23.10.     Pressurization Relief Valve System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-21-32-00
A21.23.10.1.    Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.10.2.    Locate System Components                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.10.3.    Remove/Install/Op Check Components                                                                                                    -         -        -          -


                                                                                  318
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.23.10.4.     Pressure Relief Valves                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.23.10.5.     Pressure Relief Valve Filter                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.23.11.       Pressurization Indication and Warning System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-33-00
A21.23.11.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.11.2.     Operational Check of System                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.11.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.11.4.                                                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.11.5.     Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.11.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.11.6.1.   Cabin Altimeter                                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.23.11.6.2.   Cabin Altitude Warning Switch                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.11.6.3.   Cabin Vertical Speed Indicator                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.23.11.6.4.   Differential Pressure Indicator                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.       Upper Deck Passenger Compartment
                 Heating/Supplemental Heat System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-46-00
A21.23.12.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.2.     Operational Check of System                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.4.     Locate System Components                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.5.     Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.12.6.1.   Heater                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.6.2.   Temperature Sensor                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.6.3.   Recirculating Heater Fan                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.6.4.   Temperature Controller                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.6.5.   Temperature Selector Panel/Switch                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.6.6.   Duct Temperature Anticipator                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.23.12.6.7.   Upper Deck Area Temperature Sensor Element                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.       Air Cycle Pack System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-51-00
A21.23.13.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.2.     Operational Check of System                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.4.     Locate System Components                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.5.     Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.6.     Leak Check Heat Exchangers                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components


                                                                        319
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.23.13.7.1.   Flow Control and Shutoff Valve/Valve Filters       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.2.   Heat Exchangers                                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.3.   Air Cycle Machine (ACM)                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.4.   ACM Oil Servicing                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.5.   Water Separator/Coalescer                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.6.   Compressor Bypass Check Valve                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.7.   Fan Diffuser and Inlet Housing                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.8.   Pack Discharge Overheat Switch                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.9.   Compressor Discharge Overheat Switch                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.10. Water Aspirator                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.11. Ram Air Ducts                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.12. Cooling Air Check Valve                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.23.13.7.13. Ram Air System Screen                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.14.       Air Cycle Pack Temperature Indication System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-52-00
A21.23.14.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.14.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.14.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.14.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.14.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.14.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.14.6.1.   Compressor Discharge Temperature Bulb                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.14.6.2.   ACM Outlet Temperature Bulb                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.15.       Air Cycle Machine Mass Airflow Indication System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-53-00
A21.23.15.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.15.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.15.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.15.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.15.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.15.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.15.6.1.   Signal Conditioner                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.23.15.6.2.   Airflow Sensor                                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.       Liquid Cooling System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-20
A21.23.16.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -

                                                                            320
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 21
                                                       E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                           Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                        A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                    5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.23.16.5.     Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.6.     Perform System Drain/Flush/Fill                          *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.7.     LCS System Servicing                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.16.8.1.   Centrifugal Pump Check Valves                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.2.   Centrifugal Pumps                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.3.   Expansion Tank Components                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.4.   Expansion Tank                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.5.   Temperature Regulating Valve                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.6.   Amplifier Low Flow Switch                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.7.   Repurification Unit Low Flow Switch                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.8.   Ground Cooler                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.9.   Flight Cooler Gate Valves                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.10. Ground Cooler Gate Valve                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.11. Amplifier Gate Valves                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.12. LCS Control Panels                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.13. Nitrogen Bottle                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.14. Nitrogen Regulator                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.15. Resistivity Cells                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.16. Demineralizer/Particulate Filters               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.17. LCS System Hose Couplings                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.16.8.18. Circulation Pump Pressure Switches                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.17.       Isolated Equipment Cooling (1200KVA) System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-40
A21.23.17.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.23.17.2.     Operational Check of System                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.17.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.17.4.     Locate System Components                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.17.5.     Inspect System Components                                *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.17.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.17.6.1.   1200 KVA System Blowers                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.17.6.2.   1200 KVA System Bypass Valves                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.       C3 Forward Lobe Equipment Cooling System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-50
A21.23.18.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.2.     Operational Check of System                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.3.     Troubleshoot System                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.4.     Locate System Components                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -

                                                                        321
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                  Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                             Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                          A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                      5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.23.18.5.     Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.18.6.1.   Ground Valves                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.2.   Flight Valves                                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.3.   10.3 Valve Cam Operated Switch                             *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.4.   10.3 Valve Linear Actuator                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.5.   Rack Balance Valves                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.6.   Exhaust Blowers                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.7.   Exhaust Blower High and Low Speed Relays         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.8.   Plenum Pressure Relief Valve                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.9.   Ground Safety Valve Backup Door                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.10. Flow Sensor                                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.11. Forward Outflow System Control Panel                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.12. Forward Outflow System Controllers                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.18.6.13. Forward Outflow System Relay Boxes                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.       C3 Aft Lobe Equipment Cooling System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-70
A21.23.19.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.2.     Operational Check of System                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.3.     Troubleshoot System                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.4.     Locate System Components                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.5.     Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.19.6.1.   Aft Lobe Forced Air Control Valve                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.6.2.   Heaters/Heater Control Unit/EMI Filters                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.6.3.   Exhaust Blowers                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.6.4.   Rack Balance Valves                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.6.5.   Aft Lobe Equipment Cooling Airflow Sensors                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.6.6.   Aft Lobe Equipment Cooling Signal Conditioners                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.6.7.   Aft Lobe Equipment Cooling Temperature Bulbs                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.19.6.8.   Aft Lobe Exhaust Blower Airflow Sensor                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.20.       C3 Short Wire Antenna Cooling System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-90
A21.23.20.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.23.20.2.     Operational Check of System                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.20.3.     Troubleshoot System                              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.20.4.     Locate System Components                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.20.5.     Inspect System Components                                  *                                                                 -         -        -          -

                                                                          322
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.23.20.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.20.6.1.   VLF Antenna Cooling Fan                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.23.20.6.2.   VLF Antenna Cooling Shutoff Valve                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.23.20.6.3.   VLF Antenna Cooling Outflow Valve                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.23.20.6.4.   VLF Antenna Cooling Air Flow Switch                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.       C3 Main Deck Equipment Cooling System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-100
A21.23.21.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.21.6.1.   C3 Main Deck Equipment Cooling Blowers              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.6.2.   C3 Main Deck Equipment Cooling Balance Valves       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.6.3.   C3 Main Deck Equipment Cooling Exhaust Duct Smoke                                                                               -         -        -          -
                 Detectors
A21.23.21.6.4.   Rack 8.13 Smoke Detector Blower                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.6.5.   Rack 8.13 Smoke Detector Blower Pressure Switch                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.6.6.   C3 Main Deck Equipment Cooling Airflow Switch                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.21.6.7.   C3 Main Deck Equipment Cooling Plenum Screen                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.22.       C3 Radio Operator’s Console Cooling System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-110
A21.23.22.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.23.22.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.22.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.22.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.22.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.22.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.22.6.1. C3 Radio Operators Console Equipment Cooling                                                                                      -         -        -          -
               Thermal Switches
A21.23.22.6.2. C3 Radio Operators Console Equipment Cooling                                                                                      -         -        -          -
               Control Panel
A21.23.23.     Milstar 1.30 Equipment Rack Cooling System
               TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-115
A21.23.23.1.   Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.23.2.     Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.23.3.     Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.23.4.     Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.23.5.     Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.23.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Milstar Rack Exhaust Fan                                                                                -         -        -          -


                                                                             323
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.23.24.       SHF Waveguide Air Cooling System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-120
A21.23.24.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.24.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.24.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.24.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.24.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.24.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.24.6.1.   SHF SATCOM Waveguide Cooling Fans                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.24.6.2.   SHF SATCOM Waveguide Cooling Fan Pressure                                                                                      -         -        -          -
                 Switches
A21.23.24.6.3.   SHF Waveguide Cooling Relay Box                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.23.25.       SHF Antenna Air Cooling System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-130
A21.23.25.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.25.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.25.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.25.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.25.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.25.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.25.6.1.   SHF SATCOM Antenna Cooling Fan Unit                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.23.25.6.2.   Radome Exhaust Valve                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.25.6.3.   SHF SATCOM Antenna Cooling System Shutoff Valve                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.23.25.6.4.   SHF SATCOM Cooling System Low Noise Amplifier                                                                                  -         -        -          -
                 Blower Assembly
A21.23.26.       C3 Equipment Overtemperature System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-57-140
A21.23.26.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.26.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.26.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.26.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.26.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.26.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Overtemperature Switches                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.       Rack-Mounted Equipment Cooling System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-58-00
A21.23.27.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components


                                                                            324
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 21
                                                        E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                            Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                         A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                    Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                     5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.23.27.6.1.   Equipment Cooling Blowers                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.6.2.   Equipment Cooling Airflow Detector                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.6.3.   Equipment Cooling Blower Check Valve                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.6.4.   Flow Control Valve                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.6.5.   Forward Cargo Compartment Shutoff Valve                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.6.6.   Equipment Cooling Smoke Detector                                                                                            -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.6.7.   Equipment Cooling Module                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.6.8.   Equipment Cooling Smoke Detector Amplifier                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.6.9.   Upper Deck Overboard Dump Valve                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.23.27.6.10. Equipment Cooling System Relays                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A210.23.28.      Primary Zone Temperature Control System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-61-00
A21.23.28.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.2.     Operational Check of System                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.4.     Locate System Components                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.5.     Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.28.6.1.   Zone Temperature Controllers                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.6.2.   Zone Temperature Selectors                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.6.3.   Zone Temperature Sensors/Filter Assembly                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.6.4.   Zone Duct Overtemperature Switches                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.6.5.    A21.23.28.6.1.Trim Air Supply Valve                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.6.6.   Trim Air Modulating Valves                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.6.7.   Zone Duct Temperature Sensors                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.23.28.6.8.   Trim Air Sidewall Riser Duct Assembly                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.       Secondary Temperature Control System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-62-00
A21.23.29.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                    -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.2.     Operational Check of System                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.3.     Troubleshoot System                             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.4.     Locate System Components                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.5.     Inspect System Components                                 *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.29.6.1.   ACM Turbine Bypass Valves                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.6.2.   Ram Air Inlet Door Actuators                                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.6.3.   Ram Air Exit Door Actuators                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.6.4.   Pack Temperature Controllers                                                                                                -         -        -          -

                                                                         325
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 21
                                                         E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                    Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                               Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                            A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                       Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                        5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.23.29.6.5.   Pack Discharge Temperature Sensors                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.6.6.   Pack Auto/Manual Switches and Manual Temperature                                                                               -         -        -          -
                 Control Switch
A21.23.29.6.7.   Auto/Manual Relays                                                                                                             -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.6.8.   Ram Air Exit Door Limit Switches                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.23.29.6.9.   Pack Temperature Control Panel                                                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.30.       Temperature Control Test System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-63-00
A21.23.30.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.30.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.30.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.30.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.30.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.30.6.     Remove/Install System Test Module                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.31.       Valve Position Indication System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-64-00
A21.23.31.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.31.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.31.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.31.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.31.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.31.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.31.6.1.   Turbine Bypass Valve Position Indicator                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.23.31.6.2.   Pack Valve Position Indication Relays                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.23.32.       Primary Zone Temperature Indicating System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-21-65-00
A21.23.32.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.23.32.2.     Operational Check of System                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.32.3.     Troubleshoot System                                *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.32.4.     Locate System Components                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.23.32.5.     Inspect System Components                                    *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.23.32.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.23.32.6.1.   Zone Supply Duct Temperature Bulb                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.23.32.6.2.   Zone Temperature Indicator                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.24.          OXYGEN SYSTEM
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-35-00-00 & 15X-1-1
A21.24.1.        Adjust LOX Quantity/Pressure Indicators            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.2.        Clean Aircraft Oxygen System Compnents             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.3.        Perform LOX System Purge                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.4.        Perform Oxygen Regulator Field Tests Using PBG     *                                                                           -         -        -          -
                 Oxygen Regulator Field Tester 3300223-6002

                                                                            326
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                   Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                           A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                      Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                       5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.24.5.        Service/Drain Liquid Oxygen Converters            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.        Flight Crew and Special Mission Crew System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-35-10-00
A21.24.6.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.2.      Operational Check of System                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.3.      Troubleshoot System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.4.      Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.5.      Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.      Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.24.6.6.1.    Oxygen Converters                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.2.    Combination Filler/Build-Up/Vent Valves           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.3.    Drain Valves                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.4.    Regulators                                        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.5.    Heat Exchangers                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.6.    Solenoids                                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.7.    Manual Shutoff Valves                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.8.    LOX Pressure Monitor Panel/Pressure Indicators                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.9.    LOX Quatity Indicator Panel/Quantity Indicators                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.10.   LOX Pressure Amplifier                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.24.6.6.11.   Manual Interconnect Valve                                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.24.7.        Portable Oxygen System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-35-30-00
A21.24.7.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.24.7.2.      Operational Check of System                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.7.3.      Troubleshoot System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.7.4.      Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.24.7.5.      Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.24.7.6.      Remove/Install/Op Check Recharger Assemblies                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.25.          EQUIPMENT/FURNISHINGS SYSTEM
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-25-00-00
A21.25.1.        Galley System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-25-31-00
A21.25.1.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.2.      Operational Check of System                       *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.3.      Troubleshoot System                               *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.4.      Locate System Components                          *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.5.      Inspect System Components                                   *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.6.      Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.25.1.6.1.    Ovens                                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.6.2.    Refrigerator/Freezer Cavities                     *                                                                           -         -        -          -

                                                                           327
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 21
                                                      E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.25.1.6.3.    Service Condensing Unit Compressor Oil              *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.6.4.    Recover/Vacuum/Service Condensing Unit Freon        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.6.5.    Compressor Equipment Access Door Filter                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.6.6.    Microwave Oven                                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.6.7.    Condensing Units                                    *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.6.8.    Condensing Unit High/Low Side Filters                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.25.1.7.      Clean Condensing Unit Heat Exchangers                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.26.          HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEM
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-29-00-00
A21.26.1.        Pressurize Hydraulic System Using Air Driven Pump   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
                 and APU/Pneumatic Ground Cart
A21.26.2.        Air Driven Pumps (ADP) System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-29-11-00
A21.26.2.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.2.      Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.3.      Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.4.      Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.5.      Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.6.      Perform Reset of Overspeed Trip Valves                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.      Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.26.2.7.1.    Air Driven Pump Turbine Drives                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.2.    Air Driven Pump Turbine Drive Oil Servicing         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.3.    Shutoff and Speed Control Valve Units                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.4.    Time Delay Relays                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.5.    ADP Control Pressure Switches                                                                                                   -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.6.    Pneumatic Solenoid/Solenoid Valve Packs                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.7.    Turbine Drive Oil Filters                                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.8.    Turbine Drive Air Filter/Water Seperators                                                                                       -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.9.    Acceleration Control Units                                                                                                      -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.10.   Turbine Drive Shutoff Valve Position Switch                                                                                     -         -        -          -
A21.26.2.7.11.   Hydraulic Control Module                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.27.          WATER AND WASTE SYSTEM
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-38-00-00
A21.27.1.        Water Tank Pressurization System
                 TR: 1E-4B-2-38-15-00
A21.27.1.1.      Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -        -          -
A21.27.1.2.      Operational Check of System                         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.27.1.3.      Troubleshoot System                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.27.1.4.      Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.27.1.5.      Inspect System Components                                     *                                                                 -         -        -          -


                                                                             328
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 21
                                                     E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                              Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                         Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                      A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                 Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                  5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.27.1.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.27.1.6.1.   Compressor Interlock Switch                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.27.1.6.2.   Pressure Switch                                                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.27.1.6.3.   Compressor Relay                                                                                                          -         -        -          -
A21.27.2.       Toilet System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-38-32-00
A21.27.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.27.2.2.     Operational Check of System                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.27.2.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.27.2.4.     Locate System Components                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.27.2.5.     Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.27.2.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Toilet Flush Timer                                                                                -         -        -          -
A21.28.         AUXILARY POWER UNIT
                TR: 1E-4B-2-49-00-00
A21.28.1.       Operate APU                                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.28.2.       APU Air Inlet System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-49-15-00
A21.28.2.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.28.2.2.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.28.3.       APU Engine Fuel Feed System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-49-31-00
A21.28.3.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.28.3.2.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.28.4.       APU Start and Ignition System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-49-41-00
A21.28.4.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.28.4.2.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.28.5.       APU Bleed Air System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-49-52-00
A21.28.5.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.28.5.2.     Operational Check of System                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.28.5.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.28.5.4.     Locate System Components                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.28.5.5.     Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.28.5.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Thermal Switches                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.28.6.       APU Inlet Anit-Icing System
                TR: 1E-4B-2-49-54-00
A21.28.6.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                  -         -        -          -
A21.28.6.2.     Operational Check of System                   *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.28.6.3.     Troubleshoot System                           *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.28.6.4.     Locate System Components                      *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.28.6.5.     Inspect System Components                               *                                                                 -         -        -          -

                                                                      329
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 21
                                                     E-4B TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                     Tasks                                                                   Indicate
                                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                             A        B          C          D           E          A         B              C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level   5 Level        7 Level
                                                                                        Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                        (1)         (2)
                                                                         5         7    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
A21.28.6.6.     Remove/Install/Op Check Components
A21.28.6.6.1.   APU Anti-Ice Valve                                             *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.28.6.6.2.   APU Anti-Ice Switch                                                                                                              -         -        -          -
A21.28.6.6.3.   APU Inlet Air Anti-Ice Distribution Duct Couplings             *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.28.6.6.4.   APU Air Inlet Anti-Ice Spray Tubes                                                                                               -         -        -          -
A21.28.7.       APU Control System
                TR:1E-4B-2-49-61-00
A21.28.7.1.     Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.28.7.2.     Troubleshoot System                                  *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.29.         NUCLEAR HARDNESS COMPONENTS AND
                DEVICES
                TR: 1E-4B-2-44-00-00
A21.29.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -        -          -
A21.29.2.       Troubleshoot Systems                                 *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.29.3.        Locate System Components                            *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.29.4.       Inspect System Components                                      *                                                                 -         -        -          -
A21.29.5.       Remove/Install/Op Check Filter Box Assemblies        *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.29.6.       Remove/Install/Op Check Internal Filters             *                                                                           -         -        -          -
A21.29.7.       Perform Electrical Bonding Checks of Nuclear         *                                                                           -         -        -          -
                Hardening Components




                                                                             330
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 21
                                          2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                        Indicate
                                                                                                                        Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided
                                                                                                                          A       B           C
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      3-Skill   5-Skill
                                                                                                                                                7-Skill Level
                                                                                                                        Level     Level
                                                                                                                            (1)       (1)   (1)           (2)
                                                                                                                        Crse      CDC       Crse         CDC

NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDCs.
A22.1.        MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103, AFI 21-118, AFI 21-129, AFI 33-360, AFTTP 3-3, T.O. 00-20-1,
              TO 00-35D-54
A22.1.1.      Aircraft and Equipment Readiness                                                                          -         -         -             A
A22.1.2.      Maintenance Concept                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.1.3.      Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)                                                                     -         -         -             A
A22.1.4.      Operating Instructions (OI)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and
                                                                                                                        -         -         -             A

A22.1.5.      Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)                                                                     -         -         -             B
A.22.1.6.     Maintenance Metrics                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.1.7.      Maintenance Repair Priorities                                                                             -         -         -             A
A22.1.8.      Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records                                                                 -         -         -             A
A22.2.        MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 38-101
A22.2.1.      Wing Commander (WG/CC)                                                                                    -         -         -             A
A22.2.2.      Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)                                                                               -         -         -             A
A22.2.3.      Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)                                                                      -         -         -             A
A22.2.4.      Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)                                                               -         -         -             A
A22.2.5.      MXG Superintendent (SUPT)                                                                                 -         -         -             A
A22.2.6.      Squadron Commander (SQ/CC)                                                                                -         -         -             A
A22.2.7.      Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO)/Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT)                                 -         -         -             A
A22.2.8.      Flight Commander/Flight Chief                                                                             -         -         -             A
A22.2.9.      AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)                                                                             -         -         -             A
A22.2.10.     Section NCOIC/Chief                                                                                       -         -         -             B
A22.2.11.     Production Superintendent (Pro Super)                                                                     -         -         -             A
A22.3.        FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232, AFI 38-101
A22.3.1.      Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.3.2.      Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)                                                                         -         -         -             A

                                                                    331
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 22
                                          2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                       Indicate
                                                                                       Training/Information
                                                                                       Provided
                                                                                         A       B           C
Knowledge And Technical References                                                     3-Skill   5-Skill
                                                                                                               7-Skill Level
                                                                                       Level     Level
                                                                                           (1)       (1)   (1)           (2)
                                                                                       Crse      CDC       Crse         CDC

A22.3.3.      Programs and Resources Flight                                            -         -         -             A
A22.4.        FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (AMXS/HMXS)
              TR: AFI 21-101
A22.4.1.      Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)                                          -         -         -             A
A22.4.2.      Flightline Expediter                                                     -         -         -             A
A22.4.3.      Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section                                  -         -         -             A
A22.4.4.      Aircraft Section                                                         -         -         -             A
A22.4.5.      Specialist Section                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.4.6.      Weapons Section                                                          -         -         -             A
A22.4.7.      Support Section                                                          -         -         -             A
A22.5.        FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
A22.5.1.      Accessories Flight
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.5.2.      Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.5.3.      Armament Flight
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.5.4.      Avionics Flight
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.5.5.      Fabrication Flight
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.5.6.      Maintenance Flight
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.5.7.      Munitions Flight
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-201
                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.5.8.      Propulsion Flight
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.5.9.      Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                       -         -         -             A
A22.6.        MAINTENANCE TRAINING
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201 and AFI 36-2232, AETCI 36-2601, AFPD 10-9,
              and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
A22.6.1       Types of Training                                                        -         -         -             A
A22.6.2.      Training Documentation                                                   -         -         -             A
A22.6.3.      Special Certification Rosters                                            -         -         -             A
A22.6.4.      Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)                                  -         -         -             A
A22.6.5.      Training Management                                                      -         -         -             A
A22.6.6.      Training Forecast                                                        -         -         -             A
A22.6.7.      Training Request                                                         -         -         -             A
A22.6.8.      Master Training Plan                                                     -         -         -             A
                                                              332
                                                                                                     Attachment 22
                                          2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                         Indicate
                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                         Provided
                                                                                                           A       B           C
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                       3-Skill   5-Skill
                                                                                                                                 7-Skill Level
                                                                                                         Level     Level
                                                                                                             (1)       (1)   (1)           (2)
                                                                                                         Crse      CDC       Crse         CDC

A22.7.        PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2110, AFI 38-201, AFTTP 3-21.1
A22.7.1.      Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)                     -         -         -             A

A22.7.2.      Personnel Utilization                                                                      -         -         -             A
A22.8.        MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 24-203, AFI 32-7086, AFI 90-821, AFJI 31-102, AFMAN 23-110, AFMAN
              23-220, AFTTP 3-3, TO 00-5-1 and TO 00-20-1, TO 00-35D-54, TO 42B2-1-3, and TO 6J3-1-1

A22.8.1.      Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support                                          -         -         -             A

A22.8.2.      Readiness Spares Packages                                                                  -         -         -             A

A22.8.3.      Consumables Management                                                                     -         -         -             A

A22.8.4.      Equipment Items                                                                            -         -         -             A

A22.8.5.      Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight Programming   -         -         -             A

A22.8.6.      Precious Metals Recovery Program                                                           -         -         -             A

A22.8.7.      Supply Points                                                                              -         -         -             A

A22.8.8.      Local Manufacture                                                                          -         -         -             A

A22.8.9.      Repair Cycle Assets                                                                        -         -         -             A

A22.8.10.     Supply Management Products                                                                 -         -         -             A

A22.8.11.     Tail Number Bins (TNB)                                                                     -         -         -             A

A22.8.12.     Maintenance Repair / Supply Delivery Priorities                                            -         -         -             A

A22.8.13.     Classified Assets                                                                          -         -         -             A

A22.8.14.     Hazardous Materials                                                                        -         -         -             A

A22.8.15.     Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting                                                -         -         -             B
A22.8.16.     Special Handling of Supply Assets Containing Hazardous Materials                           -         -         -             A
A22.8.17.     Maintenance Supply Liaison                                                                 -         -         -             A
A22.9.        TECHNICAL ORDER POLICY
              TR: TO 00-5-1, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-303, AFI 63-101, AFTTP 3-3, TO 00-5-1
A22.9.1.      Use of Technical Orders (TO), TO Supplements and Publications                              -         -         -             A
A22.9.2.      Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO)                                                    -         -         -             A
A22.9.3.      Technical Order Change Process                                                             -         -         -             A
A22.9.4.      Technical Order Waivers                                                                    -         -         -             A
A22.10.       MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-21.1
A22.10.1.     Cannibalization Program                                                                    -         -         -             A

                                                                  333
                                                                                                                       Attachment 22
                                         2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                     AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                 Provided
                                                                                   A       B           C
Knowledge And Technical References                                               3-Skill   5-Skill
                                                                                                         7-Skill Level
                                                                                 Level     Level
                                                                                     (1)       (1)   (1)           (2)
                                                                                 Crse      CDC       Crse         CDC

A22.10.2.     Restricted Maintenance Areas                                       -         -         -             A
A22.10.3.     Red Ball Maintenance                                               -         -         -             A
A22.10.4.     Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program                             -         -         -             A
A22.10.5.     Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program                                -         -         -             A
A22.10.6.     Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program                            -         -         -             A
A22.10.7.     Tool Management                                                    -         -         -             A
A22.10.8.     Tool Accountability                                                -         -         -             A
A22.10.9.     Marking and Tool Identification                                    -         -         -             A
A22.10.10.    Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment   -         -         -             A
A22.10.11.    Lost Item/Tool Procedures                                          -         -         -             A
A22.10.12.    Maintenance Recovery Team                                          -         -         -             A
A22.11.       QUALITY ASSURANCE (QA) PROGRAM
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
A22.11.1.     Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP)          -         -         -             A
A22.11.2.     QA Product Improvement Program                                     -         -         -             A
A22.11.3.     Configuration Management (CM) and Modification Management          -         -         -             A




                                                                334
                                                                                               Attachment 22
