DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                    CFETP 21RX
Headquarters US Air Force                                                       Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                     1 August 2013



                     AFSC 21RX
            LOGISTICS READINESS OFFICER




                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                      AND TRAINING PLAN




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                        LOGISTICS READINESS BADGE
    Combines the Falcon, Oval Wreath, and Globe with one lightning bolt and
    quartermaster key to denote the three core logistics readiness disciplines of
            materiel management, transportation, and logistics plans.




                                         HERALDRY

 The falcon at the center symbolizes the Air Force. It also symbolizes American
military strength, dedication, and devotion to duty of Logistics Readiness Officers
    who support the generation and employment of aerospace forces across the
 spectrum of warfare. The globe with three encircling arrows is symbolic of the
   extensive range of our logistics support mission and capability to sustain our
   forces by land, sea, or air. The key symbolizes the security, safekeeping, and
control of materiel management in the old “Quartermaster Corps” tradition. The
 lightning bolt symbolizes the integrating role of contingency operations and the
capability to combine essential logistics elements into a coherent plan supporting
  the warfighter. The olive branch surrounding the badge symbolizes the peace
           aerospace forces provide through a professional LRO group.




Wear the basic badge after graduating from the Logistics Readiness Officer Basic Course. Wear the
senior badge after having completed training requirements in the three core competencies of Materiel
Management, Distribution, and Contingency Operations and after having completed 7-years as an LRO.
Wear the master badge at the 15-year point, having completed the Advanced Logistics Readiness
Officer’s Course (ALROC) or the Intermediate Logistics Readiness Officer Course (IROC).


                                                 1
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                     LOGISTICS READINESS OFFICER SPECIALTY
                                   AFSC 21RX
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART I

  PREFACE                                                                         4

  Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                                   6

  Section A - General Information                                                 10
      Purpose of the CFETP
      CFETP Uses
      Coordination and Approval

  Section B - Career Field Description, Training and Progression                  12
      The Logistics Readiness Officer Career Field
      The Logistics Readiness Officer & Deliberate Continuum of Learning (DCoL)
      U&TW Training Decisions
      Career Path/Training Flow

  Section C - Proficiency Training Requirements                                   22
      Purpose
      21R1 and 21A3 Specialty Qualifications

  Section D - Resource Constraints                                                24


  PART II
  Section A - Course Training Standards                                           25
      Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level requirements

  Section B - Training Course Index                                               26
       Purpose
       AFSC Awarding Courses
       Non-AFSC Awarding Courses
       Follow-on MAJCOM/Unit Courses
       Exportable Courses
       Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT)
       Department of Defense Courses

  Section C - Support Material                                                    30
      Follow-on Unit Training




                                                  2
                              TABLE OF CONTENTS CONTINUED


 Section D - Orientation Program – Home Station Training                 31
    Logistics Officer Orientation Program (LOOP)

 Charts
    Chart 1.   Logistics Readiness Core Competencies and Proficiencies   12
    Chart 2.   The Deliberate Continuum of Learning                      15
    Chart 3.   Career Progression                                        19
    Chart 4.   Logistics Readiness Officer Orientation Program (LOOP)    32
    Chart 5.   LRO Training Record Levels of Understanding               34
    Chart 6.   Contingency Operations Training Matrix                    35
    Chart 7.   Distribution Training Matrix                              40
    Chart 8.   Materiel Management Training Matrix                       47

 Table
    Table 1. IROC Transition                                             20
    Table 2. ALROC Transition                                            21
    Table 3. Qualification Requirements                                  23

 Attachments
    Attachment 1: CTS, Logistics Readiness Officer Basic Course          59




______________________________________________________________________________
OPR: 344 TRS/TRRM (GS12 Michael Humphries), DSN 473-0692
Certified by: USAF/A4LF, Lt Col Eric G. Ellmyer
Supersedes: 21RX CFETP, 1 November 2009
Pages: 64




                                                 3
Preface

1. Highly Trained Logistics Readiness Officers. A highly trained, motivated officer corps is
the Air Force’s key resource in overcoming today’s challenges and meeting future challenges.
Combatant commanders are dependent on logistics in general and professional Logistics
Readiness Officers (LRO) in particular for mission success. Thus, it is essential to maintain a
highly trained and qualified LRO career field. This Career Field Education and Training Plan
(CFETP) provide a training and experience “roadmap” for the career field and codifies
mandatory training and qualification requirements. This plan applies to members of the Air
Reserve Component (ARC) in addition to the Active Duty component; however, specific training
and qualification timelines may be extended to accommodate availability of ARC members.
This CFETP is a comprehensive core education and training document, which identifies life-
cycle education and training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task
requirements for the LRO specialty. This CFETP provides a clear career path to success and
instills rigor in all aspects of career field training.

2. The CFETP. The CFETP consists of two parts that are used to plan, manage, and control
training within the 21RX career field. Officers, supervisors, and commanders will use each part
to plan, manage, and execute career field-specific education & training.

2.1. Part I is in four sections and provides information necessary for overall management of
training in the career field. Section A explains how to use the plan; Section B identifies career
progression information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and a career field
flowchart; Section C associates each skill level with qualifications (knowledge, training,
education, experience, etc.); and Section D indicates resource constraints in formal/unit training,
i.e., funds, manpower, equipment, facilities.

2.2. Part II describes education & training venues, as well as the mechanics for accomplishing
required education & training. Section A identifies Course Training Standards (CTSs), Section
B identifies required education & training venues. Section C identifies optional education &
training. At unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct
training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan. Section D describes the LRO
Orientation Program (LOOP). Finally, Section E provides the LRO Core Competency Training
Record.

3. Using the CFETP. The following individuals must utilize this CFETP to ensure LROs
receive effective and appropriately-timed education & training and skill-enhancing experience at
appropriate stages in their development. At unit level, commanders, supervisors and trainers will
use Part II to plan and conduct training commensurate with the requirements directed by this
plan. Additionally, the following individuals below must comply with but are not limited to the
following duties and responsibilities:

3.1. Individual: Individuals will complete CFETP core requirements for upgrade from 21R1 to
21R3 within 24-months of being assigned to a 21R position. Group commanders may extend
this requirement. Check records to ensure 21R3 certification has been awarded. With prior
coordination and approval from their squadron Commander (or equivalent), ARC members may



                                                 4
extend this requirement to 48-months to accommodate availability constraints. Individuals will
also complete required education & training requirements for upgrade to senior and master skill
levels as directed by this plan.

3.2. Unit Training Manager: Responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
Program Career Field Education and Training. Responsibilities include (but are not limited to)
loading member’s CFETP into Training Business Area (TBA), assisting supervisors and
commanders with tracking/managing completion of Core Competency Training Matrices (Part
II, Section E), and granting supervisors and commanders access to electronic training records.

3.3. Supervisor/Operations Officer: Supervisors and Operations Officers will ensure trainees
understand fundamentals of each Core Competency Training Matrix task, manage and control
officer progression through core competency training, and document training completion in TBA
and the Military Personnel Data System (MilPDS). Supervisors and Operations Officers
determine work centers an officer will visit, identify local training tasks and review training
progress with trainees quarterly and document review. Verify pre-task/task/post-task actions are
included for follow-on training, identify tasks in addition to core tasks, and certify completion of
training.

3.4. Squadron Commander: Squadron commanders (or equivalent) are responsible for
ensuring assigned officers meet requirements prescribed in this CFETP. Squadron commanders
(or next higher authority) will certify core competency training progression by documenting task
completion in TBA and administer Core Competency On-the-Job exportable end-of-course
examinations. These responsibilities may only be delegated to another Field Grade Officer,
ideally the squadron Operations Officer. Commanders will also certify award of the 21R3 AFSC
and senior certification via submission of an AF Form 2096, Classification/On-The-Job-Training
Action, to the Force Support Squadron (FSS) for each core competency to update an officer’s
personnel record.

3.5. Group Commander: Group commanders will monitor the effectiveness of LRO training;
notify MAJCOMs of formal training shortfalls to ensure timely correction and redirection of
formal training emphasis and ensure the best possible training environment for LROs. Group
commanders will also award master certification.

3.6. MAJCOM A4R: MAJCOM A4Rs will monitor the effectiveness of LRO education &
training and address training shortfalls and deficiencies across their respective commands.
Specific attention must be given to ensuring squadron commanders implement a robust rotation
schedule in order to expose junior officers to all core competencies, at a minimum, and as many
proficiencies as feasible.




                                                 5
                          ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training. A formal course which provides officers who are already fully-qualified in
their Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) with additional skills/knowledge to complement
expertise in the career field. Training is for career officers at the qualified and staff level of an
AFSC.

Air Force Career Field Manager. AFCFM. AF focal point for the designated career field
within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing
issues and coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the career
field policy and guidance. Must be appointed by the CFM and hold the grade of Colonel/GS-15
(or equivalent) for officer and DAF civilian specialties, and the grade of Chief Master Sergeant
for enlisted Airmen.

Air Force Intern Program. AFIP. The AFIP is an Intermediate Development Education
program designed to develop officers’ understanding of air, space and cyberspace power and to
broaden their perspectives through personal observation of senior DoD, Air Force, legislative,
political, and academic leaders making strategy and policy decisions.

Air Force Institute of Technology. AFIT. AFIT offers Masters Degrees in Logistics
Management, Acquisition Logistics, Logistics and Supply Chain Management. Ph.D. programs
are also available. AFIT School of Systems and Logistics (AFIT/LS) also provides professional
continuing education courses (PCE).

Advanced Logistics Readiness Officer Course. ALROC. An advanced logistics readiness
course for intermediate level LROs.

Acquisition Professional Development Program. APDP. Established to ensure career
development within designated acquisition and logistics career fields.

Air Reserve Component. ARC. Combination of Air Force Reserve Command and Air
National Guard forces.

Air Reserve Technician. ART. Combination of civil servant and reservist.

Career Field Education and Training Plan. CFETP. A comprehensive, multipurpose
document that encapsulates the entire spectrum of training for a career field or specialty. It
outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and makes career field training
identifiable, eliminates duplication, and is fiscally prudent.

Continuation Training. Follow-on unit training.

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements for everyone
within an Air Force specialty regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a
particular skill level or in general across the AFSC.




                                                 6
Course Training Standard. CTS. A specialized document that identifies the tasks and/or
knowledge requirements and level of proficiency provided within a specific course of training.
The document serves as a contract between AETC and its customers. It standardizes and
controls the quality of officer training.

Developmental Assignment. DA. A deliberate approach to gaining varied "hands on"
experience to help prepare for senior leadership positions by focusing on specific competencies
to be strengthened through each assignment.

Defense Acquisition University. DAU. Provides mandatory, assignment-specific, and
continuing education courses for military and civilian acquisition personnel within the
Department of Defense.

Deliberate Continuum of Learning. DCoL. A purposeful education and focused training
roadmap that supports career path progression across key logistics mission sets to include
deployment & distribution, supply chain, repair network integration, life cycle logistics, and
Joint logistics.

Developmental Education. DE. Critical component of the force development construct and
represents a large investment in the continuum of our Airmen's growth. DE is a deliberate
process for developing our future leaders through traditional military education, advanced
academic degrees or experiential assignments with industry or academic institutions.

Department of Defense. DOD. The federal department responsible for safeguarding national
security of the United States.

Developmental Team. DT. Enhancement of work group effectiveness by improving
clarification of roles and goals.

Education with Industry. EWI. This is a career development program designed to improve
the management abilities and technical and professional competencies of partnering students by
partnering with industry.

Exportable Training. Additional training via internet-based instruction, paper text, interactive
video or courseware, and other necessary means focused on enhancing On-the-Job training.

Field Evaluation Questionnaire. FEQ. FEQs solicit feedback from supervisors and/or
graduates to determine if the graduates were trained as specified in the course training standard.

Graduate Assessment Survey. GAS. The GAS gathers customer feedback on AF graduates
from designated initial skill courses.

Internet-based Instruction. IBI. Web-based instruction is teaching and learning supported by
the attributes and resources of the internet.




                                                 7
Intermediate Developmental Education. IDE. Specific educational opportunities including
(but not limited to) Air Command and Staff College, US Army Command and General Staff
College, College of Naval Command and Staff, Marine Corps Command and Staff College,
USAF Academy AOC Masters Program, Air Force Institute of Technology and other identified
advanced academic degree programs.

Installation Deployment Officer Course. IDOC. This course prepares LROs to execute the
full spectrum of duties of an Installation Deployment Officer (IDO) across the deployment /and
redeployment continuum.

Intermediate Training. A formal course that builds on previous education & training venues
and experience. Focuses on preparing officers for duties commensurate with squadron
Operations Officer and beyond.

Integrated Logistics Support. ILS. Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) is the disciplined and
unified management of the technical logistic disciplines that plan and develop Logistics Support
Requirements for military forces and which will ensure System product Quality in terms of
Reliability, Availability, Maintainability, Testability (RAMT).

In the Promotion Zone. IPZ. e.g., Primary Zone. Officers who are senior to the officer
specified by the SECAF as being the junior officer eligible for promotion consideration IPZ for
their competitive category, and who have neither failed selection to the next higher grade nor
been removed from a promotion list to that grade after selection IPZ.

Intermediate Logistics Readiness Officer Course. IROC. (Replaced LREC. Officers who
have completed ALROC need not complete IROC)

Initial Skills Training. IST. IST is a formal AETC resident course, which results in award of
the entry skill level.

Logistics Career Broadening Program. LCBP. A two-year developmental program, with a
one-year follow on assignment to the same installation, where officers are competitively selected
and developed as materiel management officers.

Life Cycle Logistics. LCL. Encompasses the entire system’s life cycle including acquisition,
sustainment, and disposal.

Logistics Readiness Officer Orientation Program. LOOP. An orientation program that
provides a local training plan to familiarize officers with unit specific procedures and operations.

Logistics Readiness Expeditionary Course. LREC. Replaced by IROC.

Qualification Training. Training designed to expose officers to job-related tasks and concepts.
This training also serves to qualify officers on tasks identified in Part II of this CFETP.




                                                 8
Senior Developmental Education. SDE. Specific educational opportunities to include (but not
limited to) Air War College, National War College, Industrial College of the Armed Forces,
Army War College, and Naval War College.

Squadron Officer School. SOS. Professional Military Education course for U.S. Air Force
Captains. It fulfills the U.S. Air Force's requirement for primary developmental education (PDE).

Total Active Federal Commissioned Service. TAFCS. All periods of active duty
commissioned service.

Training Business Area. TBA. Web application that provides supervisors access to virtual
training products, such as CFETPs, Air Force job qualification standards, as well as master and
individualized training plans.

Time on Station. TOS. An Airmen’s current base residency. TOS is computed on a month-to-
month basis by adding the required period to the month and year of date arrived station.

Total Force. The collective components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the
United States Air Force.

Upgrade Training. UGT. Mandatory training that leads to the award of a higher skill level.

USAF Expeditionary Center. The USAF Expeditionary Center is the Air Force’s Center of
Excellence responsible for expeditionary innovation, education, training, and exercises. The
center delivers innovative expeditionary combat support concepts and capabilities and prepares
leaders and forces to effectively accomplish air mobility, Air Force, Joint, and coalition
missions. The center’s schools, directorates, and detachments work together to achieve one
major goal – keeping Air Force forces ready, at a moment’s notice, to deploy anywhere in the
world.

Utilization and Training Workshop. U&TW. A forum led by the AFCFM and
AETC/DOOM. MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers, Subject
Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel participate in establishing career field
education & training requirements.




                                                9
PART I

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP contains and provides information for career field
functional managers, commanders, supervisors, trainers, and the technical training centers to
plan, develop, manage and conduct a robust career field training program. This plan identifies
initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and continuation training. The CFETP has
several purposes.

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, develop, manage, and conduct a career field training
program. It is also used to ensure established training is provided at the appropriate point in an
officer’s career.

1.2. Identifies requirements for each skill level and recommends training for each phase of an
officer’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and provides
the training medium.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field
training program.

2. CFETP uses. MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM) and supervisors at all levels will use
this plan to ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training program is instituted for each officer.

2.1. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) develops/revises formal resident and
exportable training based on user requirements documented in this CFETP. AETC is responsible
for developing procurement and acquisition strategies to obtain the resources required to provide
training identified in the CFETP. The AETC Course Training Manager (AETC CTM) and the
AFCFM are the custodians of this CFETP and ensure HQ AFPC/DPPAT receives approved
revisions for publication. The AETC CTM is responsible for notifying HQ AETC to index the
CFETP in http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

2.2. The AFCFM will schedule and chair a Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) at a
minimum of every 3-years to address the training needs of the career field.

2.3. The MAJCOM functional manager will ensure training programs complement the CFETP
mandatory initial skills and upgrade requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by
AETC and unit resident training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM-developed
training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate
available training.

2.4. Squadron Commanders use this plan to develop and implement a tailored training program
for officers assigned to their squadrons by reviewing CFETP-directed training requirements and
considering documented training accomplished in previous assignments. In addition, squadron


                                                 10
commanders will ensure each officer’s training plan is maintained and tracked in the Training
Business Area (TBA). Commanders will also submit an AF Form 2096 to the Force Support
Squadron (FSS) or local personnel function after an officer completes core competency training
requirements and successfully completes the associated exportable core competency training
module for each core competency to be awarded the appropriate SEI. The FSS will use the
AF Form 2096 to update the members’ personnel records to reflect award of the respective core
competency Special Experience Identifier (SEI).

2.5. Each 21R officer will complete the mandatory requirements specified in this plan. Officers
will verify their training records are maintained in TBA. Once an officer has met all Master
Qualification requirements and is signed off by their squadron commander on the same in TBA,
it is recommended the officer maintain a printed copy of their training record for future
reference.

3. Coordination and approval. The CFETP is approved and maintained by the Air Force
Career Field Manager (AFCFM) in accordance with (IAW) AFI36-2201, Air Force Training
Program Career Field Education and Training. Forward recommended changes to the AFCFM,
HQ USAF/A4LF. MAJCOM requests for additional training must either be accompanied by
funding or must be satisfied within existing resources. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate career field
training requirements. The AETC CTM for AFSC 21R will coordinate with the AFCFM to
initiate an annual MAJCOM review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy.

4. Use of TBA or approved electronic training record is mandatory for all active, guard, and
reserve personnel to document CFETP requirements. Contact your MAJCOM 21R functional if
unable to comply with this mandate.




                                              11
PART I

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD DESCRIPTION, TRAINING AND PROGRESSION

1. Logistics Readiness Officer Career Field. The 21RX AFSC encompasses in-garrison and
expeditionary logistics readiness operations at the tactical, operational, and strategic levels of
command. It is comprised of three core competencies with seven subordinate proficiencies
located in Chart 1.

             Chart 1. Logistics Readiness Core Competencies and Proficiencies

                                  MATERIEL               CONTINGENCY
            COMPETENCIES                    DISTRIBUTION
                                 MANAGEMENT               OPERATIONS
                                     Materiel         Distribution       Contingency
                                    Management        Management          Operations


                                     Vehicle           Aerial Port
                                    Management         Operations
            PROFICIENCIES
                                      Fuels
                                    Management

                                  Acquisition/Life
                                  Cycle Logistics

The following paragraphs from the Air Force Officer Classification Directory (AFOCD) describe
the career field and its proficiencies:

1.1. Specialty Description. Integrates the spectrum of the logistics processes within the Joint,
operational, acquisition, and wholesale environments. The major logistics processes include
distribution, materiel management and contingency operations. Directs and manages distribution
management, materiel management, contingency operations, fuels management, airlift
operations, and vehicle fleet management. Plans and programs logistics support requirements for
wartime, contingency and humanitarian events. Related DoD Occupational Group: 280100.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

1.2.1. Materiel Management. Directs materiel management operations such as direction and
management of retail or wholesale supply activities. Included are environmental compliance and
inventory management. Determines, computes, and analyzes current and projected materiel
requirements; applies authorizations and allowances; establishes and maintains demand based
(i.e., Mission Readiness Spares Package) and non-demand based stock levels; manages asset
positioning; inspects, reviews, and evaluates work methods and procedures. Ensures
accountability is maintained for supplies, equipment, Nuclear Weapons Related Materiel
(NWRM) and War Reserve Materiel (WRM). Determines effectiveness of functional data
systems. Manages assigned information systems and applies approved standards and criteria to


                                                 12
ensure proper implementation, operation, and results. Develops plans, programs, policies and
procedures to manage materiel management activities, including systems design and analysis,
determination and computation of requirements, plans for activation and inactivation, facility
requirements, equipment allowances, and materiel accounting. Develops working capital fund
operating programs and determines operating budget. Provides guidance on handling of
readiness materiel stocks, including location, type of storage, protection, security, and quality
control.

1.2.2. Vehicle Fleet Management. Directs vehicle fleet management operations such as
coordination of vehicle and equipment requirements, assignments, priorities, and warranty
repairs. Evaluates quality of operator care and maintenance. Determines operational
requirements and specifications including reliability, maintainability, and standardization for
facilities, vehicles and materiel handling equipment. Develops policies and procedures for the
administration of vehicle abuse and misuse programs. Collects and analyzes data on vehicle
operations and maintenance. Manages compliance with Air Force energy objectives for leased
and Air Force owned ground vehicles.

1.2.3. Fuels Management. Directs fuels management operations such as environmental
compliance and inventory management of ground and aviation fuels. Determines petroleum
provisions, computes and analyzes current and projected petroleum requirements; computes,
establishes, and maintains stock levels; manages fuel receipt from pipelines, trucks, rail cars, and
marine vessels. Manages fuel dispensing systems, bulk fuel storage facilities, cryogenics
production and storage, and test and evaluation of fuel samples. Develops, plans, and establishes
policies and procedures to manage fuels activities, including systems design, plans for activation
and inactivation, facility requirements, equipment allowances, and accounting. Interprets fuels
directives. Inspects, reviews, and evaluates work methods and procedures. Resolves problems
related to storage, fire hazards, and truck fill stand and aircraft refueling areas. Coordinates with
commander, staff, and operating units on wartime, contingency and peacetime fuels support.
Coordinates with elements of DoD and other governmental organizations to assure support to Air
Force units.

1.2.4. Acquisition/Life Cycle Logistics. Directs acquisition/life cycle logistics activities. Plans
for and manages systems, subsystems, and equipment throughout their life cycle, including
integrated logistics support activities and modernization/obsolescence planning. Develops,
initiates, integrates, and manages all logistics actions associated with life cycle management of
weapon systems, subsystems, and equipment. Serves as logistics focal point throughout the
system’s life cycle. Formulates logistics management and fiscal policy for weapon systems.

1.2.5. Distribution Management. Directs distribution management operations to include
managing cargo distribution functions such as receiving, inspecting, tracing, tracking, packaging,
and shipping of supplies, NWRM, equipment, and war readiness spares. Responsible for
logistics pipeline management and time-sensitive delivery of materiel in support of peacetime,
contingency, and wartime operations. Maintains accountability for supplies and equipment.
Responsible for the safe and efficient organic ground transportation of personnel and cargo
within and between installations in support of daily and contingency operations. Resolves
problems related to storage, safety, and fire hazards. Manages storage space utilization and



                                                 13
develops and maintains a storage facility and mechanized material handling equipment
modernization program to include maintenance, future upgrades, and working stock
requirements. Determines readiness requirements, including emergency supply support plans,
tactical and strategic movement of personnel, materiel, and units. Schedules and coordinates
movement of cargo, personnel, and personal property by commercial or military modes using
systems that interface with defense total asset visibility systems. Uses In-Transit Visibility (ITV)
systems. Maintains liaison with US Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM), other services
and federal agencies to schedule and coordinate movements of cargo and personnel. Ensures
proper allocation and effective use of transportation resources. Establishes and administers an
effective packaging and preservation program. Evaluates movement forecasts and flow of
personnel and cargo into the transportation system, movement capabilities, and efficiency of
modes used.

1.2.6. Aerial Port Operations. Directs aerial port operations such as management of fixed and
mobile air terminals through various sub-processes to include: Fleet Services, Aerial Delivery,
Passenger Terminals, Freight, and Air Terminal Operations. Coordinates contingency
transportation support requirements and capabilities with other agencies using DoD and USAF
logistics, transportation, and ITV systems. Coordinates military and commercial aircraft
schedules with appropriate control and operations centers and flight line agencies using current
DoD and USAF logistics, transportation, and ITV systems. Evaluates movement forecast and
flow of personnel and cargo into the most efficient mode of the Defense Transportation System.
Collects and analyzes data on air transportation.

1.2.7. Contingency Operations. Directs contingency operations such as logistics planning,
deployment command and control, Logistics Readiness Centers, logistics command and control,
Combat Support Center activities, deployment, bed-down, and redeployment activities.
Integrates Agile Combat Support planning efforts, conducts readiness assessment of logistics
activities, conducts war and contingency planning, base support and expeditionary site planning,
WRM management, support agreement management, manages logistics time phased force
deployment data and unit type codes. Enables international theater security cooperation and
interoperability, operating in coalition or Joint environments often working with contractors,
host-nations, etc.

2. The Logistics Readiness Officer and the Deliberate Continuum of Learning (DCoL).
Quality education & training and timely progression through skill levels play an important role in
the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its mission. Therefore, it is essential that senior leaders
involved in education & training do their part to plan, develop, manage, conduct, and evaluate
effective and efficient education & training programs. The guidance provided in this part of the
CFETP will ensure officers receive focused and appropriately-timed education & training
throughout their careers. Chart 2 is a visual depiction of the building blocks for the LRO DCoL
and the following narrative provides guidance on how to accomplish building a well-rounded
LRO.




                                                14
       Chart 2. The Logistics Readiness Officer Deliberate Continuum of Learning




2.1. Skill Certification.

2.1.1. 21R3 Certification. Representative grades are normally O-1 through O-2. IAW Air
Force Officer Classification Directory (AFOCD), the following are mandatory for 21R3
certification: completion of a formal AETC entry-level training course (Logistics Readiness
Officer Basic Course, L3OBR21R1 0L1C); 24-months experience in any LRO function with no
less than 12 continuous months in one of the core competencies (Materiel Management,
Contingency Operations, or Distribution Management); and completed certification requirements
for one core competency.

2.1.1.1. Internet-based exportable training modules complement OJT and experience to ensure
officers have a firm foundation in the three LRO core competencies. Each core competency has
a corresponding exportable course that must be completed to qualify for certification. Seven
years TAFCS is a goal for completion of the exportable courses. However, completion of core
competency training may extend beyond the 7-year window depending on assignments and
available training opportunities. The exportable courses are administered by the AFIT School of
Systems and Logistics (AFIT/LS).

2.1.1.1.1. LOG 140, Contingency Operations: Internet-based intermediate-level training that
focuses on contingency operations processes and execution at the tactical level of command.
Reinforces training prescribed in the Contingency Operations Core Competency Training Matrix
(See Part II, Section E).

2.1.1.1.2. LOG 141, Distribution: Internet-based intermediate-level training that focuses on
distribution processes and execution at the tactical level of command. Reinforces training
prescribed in the Distribution Core Competency Training Matrix (See Part II, Section E).

2.1.1.1.3. LOG 142, Materiel Management: Internet-based intermediate-level training that
focuses on materiel management processes and execution at the tactical level of command.
Reinforces training prescribed in the Materiel Management Core Competency Training Matrix
(See Part II, Section E).


                                               15
2.1.2. Senior Certification. Representative grades are O-3 through O-4. An officer will be
eligible for award of the Senior skill level at the 7-year point in the career field (time spent
outside of the career field in positions not coded as 21RX does not count toward award of senior
certification), provided he/she has previously qualified as a 21R3 and has completed certification
in all three core competencies. Officers having core competency training completion dates
annotated in their training record prior to 1 Aug 11 are grandfathered from above requirements
for those core competencies.

2.1.3. Master Certification. Representative grades are normally O-4 and higher. An officer
will be eligible for the Master certification at the 15-year point in the 21R specialty (time spent
outside of career field in positions not coded as 21RX does not count toward award of master
certification), provided he/she was previously awarded senior qualification and has completed
IROC and/or ALROC, in addition to all education and training requirements specified in Part II,
Section E of this document, as well as the corresponding exportable courses (AFIT 140, 141, and
142). Officers with this level of competency are ready to assume a broad spectrum of leadership
roles.

2.2. Career Progression

2.2.1. Entry Level. (0 – 1-years TAFCS) IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program,
initial skills training (IST) must be completed within 6-months of entering active duty unless
restricted by lack of security clearance or other extenuating circumstances. Upon successful
completion of 21RX IST, graduates will receive the entry-level 21R1 AFSC. In addition, an
officer must complete the six week LRO Orientation Program (LOOP) described in Part II,
Section D prior to attending IST. Initial assignments provide opportunities to build depth of
knowledge and technical expertise. To the maximum extent possible, commanders will expose
new officers to the entire mission of the unit.

2.2.1.1. Positions include (but are not limited to) Flight Commander, Assistant Flight
Commander, and Duty Officer (Aerial Port Squadrons and Air Mobility Squadrons).

2.2.1.2. Entry Phase Officers should understand all requirements prescribed in this CFETP.

2.2.1.3. Unit commanders are required to implement the LOOP for all first-assignment LROs.
See Part II, Section D for program details. Officers with less than 1-year TAFCS may begin
Practical Phase Training with approval of their squadron commander (or equivalent).

2.2.2. Intermediate Level. (1 – 5-years TAFCS) Officers should focus on acquiring depth and
breadth in the three 21R core competencies and honing leadership skills in anticipation of an
assignment as a Logistics Readiness and/or Aerial Port Squadron Operations Officer.

2.2.2.1. Positions include, but are not limited to Flight Commander, Assistant Flight
Commander, Duty Officer (Aerial Port Squadrons and Air Mobility Squadrons).




                                                16
2.2.2.2. Key squadron-level knowledge areas and processes which LROs must demonstrate an
acceptable understanding of to be certified in each of the three LRO core competencies. This
phase is commonly referred to as “On-the-Job Training” or “OJT” (See Part II, Section E). Five
years TAFCS is a goal for completion of OJT. However, completion of core competency
training may extend beyond the 1 – 5-year window depending on assignments, deployments and
available training opportunities.

2.2.2.3. IAW the LRO FAM Guide, LROs will be available for deployment after completion of
one core competency, promotion to the rank of First Lieutenant, and unit commander
endorsement.

2.2.3. Advanced Level. (5 – 9-years TAFCS) Focus on completing all core competency
training requirements. Officers should seek out increased levels of responsibility and must
complete the Intermediate Logistics Readiness Officer Course (IROC) and/or the Advanced
Logistics Readiness Course (ALROC). Selection for ALROC is a competitive process
conducted by the 21R Development Team (DT) during the team’s annual fall meeting. ALROC
graduates are not required to complete IROC, but they are not prevented from completing it.
Finally, if officers have not completed core competency training; they should make it a priority
to do so. Positions include, but are not limited to Flight Commander, DLA, NAF or MAJCOM
Staff, Depot, Operations Officer, LRO Basic Course Instructor, LCBP, EWI and Developmental
Assignments.

2.2.4. Staff and Senior Level. Focus on being confident and competent in the three LRO core
competencies in anticipation for assignment as a Logistics Readiness and/or Aerial Port
Squadron Commander. Specifically, officers will continue to broaden expertise while
strengthening their background in logistics readiness. FGOs should pursue those leadership
opportunities that make them viable candidates for squadron command and subsequent selection
for group command or a key senior logistics readiness officer position in the Joint or supply
chain enterprise. Positions include but are not limited to Squadron Command, Deputy Group
Command NAF, MAJCOM, COCOM, Air Staff, Joint Staff, Depot, Acquisition, Life Cycle
Logistics (LCL), Joint Logistics and Developmental Assignments.

2.3. Prior Enlisted LROs. IAW AFI 36-2903, Dress and Appearance, prior-enlisted officers
who held senior/master logistics badges may continue to wear awarded badges. However, these
officers are required to meet all CFETP training requirements for LRO career progression. Time
served in any prior enlisted logistics AFSC counts toward the officer’s LRO badge level (e.g., a
First Lieutenant with 4-years in an enlisted 2SXXX, 2FXXX, 2GXXX, or 2TXXX AFSC and
3-years as a 21R may wear the senior LRO badge).

3. U&TW Training Decisions: After reviewing Operational Assessment and Readiness data,
formal training data, course training standards, and available formal/informal courses, the
following decisions were made:

3.1. A focus of the 21R U&TW was to reshape 21R courses as building blocks within the
Deliberate Continuum of Learning. In addition, the U&TW emphasized the need to provide



                                               17
timely training and education for LROs serving at tactical, operational and strategic levels.
Changes of note included:

3.2. LRO Basic Course changes. The LRO Basic Course CTS was reviewed. The focus of the
review was to ensure LROs gain the knowledge and competency necessary to assume positions
at the tactical level immediately upon graduation. The revised CTS is in Part II of this CFETP.

3.3. Core Competency Training. The Core Competency Training Matrices (Part II, Section E)
were reviewed for relevancy and accuracy.

3.4. Intermediate Training Changes. The Intermediate LRO course (IROC) transitioned from in-
residence to Internet-based Instruction (IBI) in CY12. This CFETP transitions the target
audience from 8 to 12-years of commissioned service to five to nine in order to align with
ALROC. This CFETP also provides a transition plan which ensures all year groups have equal
opportunity to compete to attend.

3.5. Advanced Training Changes. The DT approved adjusting ALROC target year groups from
8 to 12-years of commissioned service to 5 to 9-years beginning in CY12. The DT also
approved transitioning ALROC to a more tactically-focused curriculum. This shift offers an
increase in immediate payback at the squadron level by enabling graduates to put the curriculum
to use immediately. Finally, the team approved a transition plan which ensures all year groups
have equal opportunity to compete to attend.

4. Career Path/Training Flow. Experience and knowledge in this Air Force specialty will help
officers plan and achieve their Air Force career goals as LROs. There are certain jobs or
experiences in this discipline that will assist them in meeting individual goals. Consequently,
training and experience complement one another to develop officers with theoretical and
practical mastery of the LRO skill set. Chart 3 describes the career path/training opportunities
and outlines when training is required for career progression within this specialty.




                                                18
                                              Chart 3. Career Progression




                                                                  Joint
                                                               HQ USAF
                                                               MAJCOM
                                                               Group CC

                                                                HQ USAF               SDE
                                                                                      AWC, ICAF, NWC, Fellowships
                                                        Dep Grp/CC        MAJCOM
                                                        International Duty (SAO)
                                                         Squadron Commander
                                                         Developmental Assignment           IDE
                                                                                            ACSC
                                                 Special Duty         Operations Officer
                                               Joint /OSD/DLA          DRU, FOA, Center


                                           Complete experience 3 Core Competencies:                 BDE
                                            Contingency Ops – Distribution – Materiel Mgt           SOS
                                     Leadership (Wing/Base
                                                                      MAJCOM         NAF Staff            Training
                                     Ops Officer, IDO, Flt/CC,
                                     ALC, SPO)                                        AAD (AFIT)          ALROC or IROC,
                                                    Developmental Assignment                              LOG 140-142
                                                                           Special Duty
                                          LCBP, Acq Log            (PME, Schoolhouse, Instructor,
                                                                   Exchange Officer, Recruiting)




                                               Logistics Readiness Job Proficiencies
                                                                                                                     Training
                            Contingency Ops – Distribution – Materiel Mgt – Aerial Port – Fuels – Vehicle Mgt        LOOP, LRO Basic
                                                                                                                      Course


           NOTES: Line IPZ rates calculated AF-wide. (2011)

4.1. As a general rule, an officer’s first two assignments should be in a 21R position at an LRS,
APS and/or SCOS to develop a firm foundation in the LRO skill set. Officers should focus on
learning the LRS and/or APS missions through experience, completion of the three LRO Core
Competency Matrices at Part II, Section E, and the correlating AFIT exportable training
modules. In addition, officers should enroll in a Masters degree as soon as feasible.

4.2. After establishing a firm foundation in the LRO skill set, Company Grade Officers (CGOs)
should seek to broaden in knowledge and experience by pursuing Developmental Assignment
(DA) opportunities. CGOs are eligible to compete for the Logistics Career Broadening Program.
Information pertaining to this program and eligibility criteria can be found in AFI 36-2111, The
Logistics Career Broadening Program (LCBP). Additional DA opportunities include Education
With Industry (EWI), instructor duty, Acquisition, and Life Cycle Logistics (LCL) assignments.
Timing and needs of the Air Force, as well as individual goals, will determine appropriate
Developmental Assignment (DA) opportunities for each individual. CGOs also have a
Developmental Education (DE) opportunity in Squadron Officer School (SOS). It is important
to note that back-to-back career broadening assignments are strongly discouraged.




                                                                          19
4.3. Intermediate LRO Course (IROC) (L6OCW21R3 0L1A) Internet-based training designed to
prepare LROs for key tactical leadership positions (to include Operations Officer and Squadron
Command), as well as operational level of command staff positions. Individuals who have
completed ALROC are not required to complete IROC. Target audience is LRO captains with a
minimum of five and maximum of 9-years TAFCS upon graduation. IROC is administered by
the 344th Training Squadron. The following transition table (Table 1) will be used to ensure all
officers under the previous 8 to 12-year TAFCS target window have an opportunity to complete
the course. Cells highlighted in blue identify year groups in the former target audience that will
still have an opportunity to complete the course. Cells highlighted in green identify year groups
in the revised target audience that are eligible to complete the course.

                                   Table 1. IROC Transition




4.4. Advanced LRO Course (ALROC). This course is focused on developing highly-skilled
LROs grounded in the tenets of Agile Combat Support (ACS) and Expeditionary Combat
Support (ECS) at the tactical level of command while also possessing thorough understanding of
key operational and strategic touch points that directly affect the tactical mission. The course
structure focuses on the ACS master processes of Ready the Force, Prepare the Battlespace,
Position the Force, Employ and Sustain the Force, and Recover the Force with the express intent
of preparing officers for key tactical leadership opportunities (to include Operations Officer and
Squadron Commander). Target audience is LROs with a minimum of five and maximum of
9-years TAFCS upon graduation. Graduates from this school will be highly skilled logisticians
capable of providing combat support to Air Expeditionary Forces (AEF) and war-fighting
commanders, mentoring unit level logistics officers and advising senior commanders. ALROC
is administered by the USAF Expeditionary Center. The following transition table (Table 2) will
be used to ensure all officers under the previous 8 to 12-year TAFCS target window have an
opportunity to complete the course. Cells highlighted in blue identify year groups in the former
target audience that will still have an opportunity to complete the course. Cells highlighted in
green identify year groups in the revised target audience that are eligible to complete the course.




                                                20
Table 2. ALROC Transition




           21
PART I

SECTION C - PROFICIENCY TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

1. Purpose. The proficiency training requirements in the 21RX career field are defined in terms
of task and knowledge requirements for each skill level in the LRO specialty. They are stated in
broad, general terms and establish the standards of performance. The specific knowledge
training requirements are identified in Part II. Officers will develop depth on their first unit level
assignment by gaining experience both as a leader and a functional expert. A minimum of
4-years of experience is recommended before cross flowing into a second functional area (for
example: LRS/APS) or requesting AETC instructor duty. As senior captains and majors, LROs
should consider a headquarters staff position and a tour as an operations officer to gain valuable
experience and further their development. By the 15-year experience point an LRO is expected
to be fully qualified and prepared to succeed at any senior logistics/Joint position.

2. 21R1 and 21R3 Specialty Qualifications: Once the officer successfully completes IST,
meets time requirements and earns the core competency, the officer can be considered for
upgrade to a 21R3, IAW with the AFOCD. The squadron commander will verify the LRO has
completed training requirements for award of 21R3 AFSC and certify the officer for upgrade via
the AF Form 2096.

2.1. Knowledge/Core Competency Certification. Special Experience Identifiers (SEIs) are
used to capture core competency certification. Certification in all three core competencies
should be accomplished between the grades of O-1 and O-3; ideally, during an officer’s first two
assignments. Commanders should, when operationally possible, avoid placing LROs in work
centers that will not award them a new SEI. There are three SEIs: Contingency Operations
(KM), Distribution (KN), and Materiel Management (KO). These SEIs are gained by achieving
certification in each core competency. Officers MUST serve a cumulative minimum of
12-months in work centers within a core competency prior to petitioning for certification.
Officers may begin training for their next SEI when they have been awarded the SEI for the
work center they are currently assigned to. Commanders will confirm completion of all training
requirements and determine if petitioning officers are ready for certification. If so, commanders
must take action to update the officer’s personnel record via the AF Form 2096. Commanders
indicate the appropriate SEI in Block II and sign; members sign Block III and submit through
their servicing FSS or personnel function.

2.2. Education. For entry into this AFSC, an undergraduate academic degree in logistics
management, economics, management, business administration, computer science, information
management systems, finance, accounting, petroleum engineering, chemical engineering, or
industrial management is desirable.

2.3. Training. For award of the 21R1, LOOP training and then the AETC in-residence
Logistics Readiness basic course is mandatory.

2.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 21R3, 24-months experience in any LRO function with
no less than 12 continuous months in one of the following competencies: Materiel Management,



                                                 22
Contingency Operations, or Distribution Management, and completion of CFETP requirements
is mandatory.

2.5. Training Sources. A list of all courses supporting education and training is in Part II,
Section B.

2.6. Implementation. Table 3 outlines tasks that should be taken to reach appropriate training
levels.

                              Table 3. Qualification Requirements

                               Logistics Readiness Officer Progression
To Obtain
One Must
Complete




Education         Undergraduate
                  Degree
Experience        Logistics Readiness    12-months in one      7-Years as 21R         15-Years as 21R
                  Officer Orientation    Core Competency
                  Program (LOOP) --      (CO; D; MM);
                  CFETP, Section E       Cumulative time as
                                         21R = 24-months


Training          Logistics Readiness    Certification in      Certification in all   Completion of
                  Officer Basic Course   same core             3 Core                 IROC or ALROC
                                         competency            Competencies

3. Air Reserve Component (ARC)

3.1. ANG Officers. The NGB/A4R may approve waivers and extend the required completion
date when the officer cannot gain experience due to the limitations in training availability or
opportunities. All requests will be approved on a case-by-case basis and will be processed in
accordance with ANG/DPFOM guidance.

3.2. AFRC Officers (unit or IMA). The MAJCOM A4 may extend the required completion date
when the officer cannot gain experience due to limitations in training availability or
opportunities. All requests for extensions/waivers will be approved on a case-by-case basis and
will be processed in accordance with policy established by AFRC/A4R (AFRC LRO DT
Member).

4. 21R4 DAFSC. The 21R4 DAFSC is only held for the duration of an assignment at a NAF or
higher staff-level position.



                                                 23
PART I

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

1. No Resource Constraints: No resource constraints were identified during the revision of the
CTSs for all 21RX courses. Any resource constraints identified during course revision will be
forwarded for Course Resource Estimate and forwarded to AETC/A3TM Training Pipeline
Manager for resolution IAW AFI 36-2201 and AETCI 36-2203.




                                              24
PART II

SECTION A - COURSE TRAINING STANDARD

Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level requirements. These are based on an analysis of the
duties contained herein and validated by the U&TW. The qualitative requirements for each task
are based on the proficiency values listed on the Training Record Levels of Understanding in
Chart 5.

1.1. Customer Feedback. Unit supervisors will submit Field Evaluation Questionnaires (FEQ)
on officers who complete the formal LRO Basic Course training at Lackland AFB. Respond to
FEQs when received from the technical training group (37 TRG and 344 TRS). (Reference
AFI 36-2201)

1.2. Records Documentation. The CFETP will be issued at first duty station. Completion of
training will be documented and certified. Upon completion of the in-residence LRO Basic
Course, students will receive a certificate of completion and a training report (AF Form 475,
Education/Training Report).

1.3. Logistics Readiness Officer Training Requirements by Course. The Course Training
Standards (CTS) are listed in the attachments of this CFETP. Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency
Levels are broken out by each training course CTS.




                                              25
PART II

Section B –TRAINING COURSE INDEX

1. Purpose. This section of CFETP identifies training courses available in the LRO specialty
and shows how courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.
Career field functional managers and training management personnel should use this information
to plan, develop, and update their respective MAJCOM continuation training program. The
Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) contains more detailed course
information at https://etca.randolph.af.mil. Refer to this site for more detailed course
information.

2. AFSC Awarding Courses.

2.1. Logistics Readiness Officer Basic Course Training: This AFSC awarding course
provides the basic knowledge and skills needed to perform LRO duties for active duty Air Force
officers (new accessions, career broadening), Air Reserve Component (AFRC/ANG) officers,
and International officers entering the LRO Career Field. The scope of training includes
logistics fundamentals, the Air and Space Expeditionary Air Force (AEF) concept, total force,
LRO combat wing roles and responsibilities, roles and responsibilities outside of the combat
wing, wing programs impacting logistics, LRO issues, introduction to the materiel management
core competency, asset accountability, asset visibility, asset control, introduction to the
distribution core competency, distribution operations, vehicle fleet management processes,
introduction to the contingency operations core competency, deliberate planning, deployments,
and crisis action planning.

2.2. Formal Training. The LRO Basic course is an AETC formal training course. The LRO
Basic course CTS in Attachment 1 lists the formal initial skills training requirements.

3. Non-AFSC Awarding Courses.

3.1. Advanced Course in Logistics and Technology (LOGTECH): Logisticians with the
recognized potential to assume greater responsibilities and charged with implementing executive
direction will benefit tremendously from the Advanced course. This 5-day program is organized
around LOGTECH core logistics objectives. The course is taught at the Keenan-Flagler School
of Business at the University of North Carolina.

3.2. Advanced Logistics Readiness Officers Course (ALROC): The objective of this course
is to prepare LROs for leadership opportunities at the tactical level of command. Graduates
possess a thorough understanding of key operational and strategic level of command logistics
support agencies and how they relate and interact with the tactical mission. Graduates are able to
articulate how the tenets of Agile Combat Support apply across the Logistics Readiness
Squadron and how they apply to the Aerial Port Squadron. The length of the course is
approximately 8 weeks and includes visits to the Pentagon, a Major Command logistics division,
and the 635th Supply Chain Operations Wing. Graduates are charged with serving as force




                                               26
multipliers by sharing knowledge and lessons learned in the course with fellow LROs at home
station.

3.3. Contingency Wartime Planning Course (CWPC): This course is designed to instruct Air
Force war planners on the basics of Air Force planning. The curriculum consists of five blocks
of instruction covering the following aspects: players, resources, plan development, execution
and analysis. The course is conducted by the Curtis E. Lemay Center for Doctrine Development
and Education, Maxwell AFB, AL.

3.4. Executive Certificate in Integrated Supply Chain Management: Logisticians in this
certificate program learn how to effectively design superior supply chain operations. The
program provides participants with critical skills in the following areas: crafting customized
supply chain architectures, leveraging innovation, managing the supply base, aligning supply
chain partners, and implementing optimal measurement and control systems. The course is
taught at the Institute of Defense Studies at Wright State University.

3.5. Intermediate Logistics Readiness Officers Course (IROC): This course provides
training for mid-level Captains (O-3) to perform duties in Air Force Logistics Contingency
Operations, Joint Logistics, Air Force Logistics, Management Level Discussion (Contingency
Operations, Materiel Management, and Distribution) and Field Grade LRO Roles and
Responsibilities. The course places particular emphasis on operational processes, which field
grade LROs should be able to affect at both home station and in deployment environments.
Additionally, this course is to bridge the gap between CGO and FGO by shifting the focus from
the flight level to the squadron level and beyond. This course should expand the LROs
knowledge and vision by introducing higher level logistics organizations and operations showing
how the LRS/APS/AMS/SCOS/MMS fits into the bigger picture, and how the various flights fit
together in operations. This course should provide the LRO with a toolbox that they can use in
the future, while keeping them informed of ongoing and future initiatives that could impact
them.

3.6. Installation Deployment Officer Course (IDOC): Taught by the USAF Expeditionary
Center staff, this course prepares LROs to execute the duties of an Installation Deployment
Officer (IDO) across the deployment and redeployment continuum. The IDOC is an
academically challenging course, utilizing lecture, performance and exercises to emphasize the
role of the IDO in the deployment and redeployment process.

3.7. Joint Course on Logistics: The purpose of this course is to prepare military officers and
civilians for assignments that involve Joint logistics planning, inter-service and multinational
logistics support, and Joint logistics in a theater of operations. The course is conducted at the US
Army Logistics Management College (ALMC), Ft Lee, VA.

3.8. Joint Air Operations Planning Course (JAOPC): The purpose of this course is to
educate airmen from Joint, combined or supporting air component commands in the fundamental
concepts, principles and doctrine required to develop the air portion of a Joint/combined
campaign plan. The course is taught at the Curtis E. Lemay Center for Doctrine Development
and Education, Maxwell AFB, AL.



                                                27
3.9. Logistics Readiness Officer Contingency Operations Course (WLOG 140, exportable
course): This course enhances knowledge and skills for Air Force personnel in AFSC 21R1
needed to perform contingency operation duties of LROs. Topics include: Aerospace Planning,
Air and Space Expeditionary Force, Logistics C2 Planning Systems, Plans Management,
Installation Deployment Planning, Contingency Operations Planning, Base Support and
Expeditionary Planning, Readiness, Deployment Operations, Site Surveys, War Reserve Materiel
Management and Joint Planning.

3.10. Logistics Readiness Officer Distribution Course (WLOG 141, exportable course):
This course enhances knowledge and skills for Air Force personnel in AFSC 21R1 needed to
perform distribution duties of LROs. Topics include: Traffic Management, Passenger Travel,
Vehicle Operations, Air Transportation, Passenger Service Operations, Air Terminal Operations,
Air Cargo Procedures, Mobility Operations and Automated Information Systems.

3.11. Logistics Readiness Officer Material Management Course (WLOG 142, exportable
course): This course enhances knowledge and skills for Air Force personnel in AFSC 21R1
needed to perform materiel management duties of LROs. Topics include: Mission Impaired
Condition Awaiting Parts (MICAP) Processes; Stock Control Processes; Repair Cycle
Management Processes; Research and Records Maintenance Procedures; Turn-in Procedures;
Inquiries; Inspection Processes; Storage and Distribution Processes; Inventory Procedures;
Management and Oversight; Document Control; Supply Management Activity Group;
Procedures and Analysis Processes; Vehicle Fleet Management; Vehicle Fleet Maintenance
Management; Vehicle Management Analysis Element; Materiel Control; Fuels Management;
POL Facilities and Cryogenics; Fuel Distribution; Compliance and Environmental; Fuels
Information Service Center; Lab Tasks/Procedures and Contingency Operations.

4. Follow-on MAJCOM/Unit Courses. Numerous LROs operate within the joint environment.
This environment requires slightly different training. Joint training is a key item to ensure a
LROs readiness to support joint operational mission requirements and exercises around the
world. This portion of the CFETP provides the road map and is a crucial link in order to enhance
your joint knowledge while in a joint job. This portion of the training plan provides generic and
technical joint training to further develop a LROs area of expertise.

4.1. Go to the Joint Knowledge Online (JKO) website,
https://jkodirect.jten.mil/Atlas2/faces/page/login/Login.seam?cid=36779, for a complete listing
of distance learning courses available for joint training and to enroll.

4.1.1. Below is a list of suggested JKO courses that an LRO should take to further develop their
joint skills while gaining joint experience.

                            Title                                       Course Number
                   Joint Logistics Module                               P-US013-07-HB
                   Joint Logistics Module                               P-US013-07-LB




                                               28
                                 Title                                    Course Number
                 Joint Logistics Enterprise (JLEnt)                         P-US1122
          Joint Task Force Fundamentals 101 (JTF-101)                      N-US013-04
    Module 6: Joint Transition and Redeployment Operations
 Joint Task Force Fundamentals 101 (JTF-101) Module 7: Joint                P-US013-07
                              Logistics
          Joint Task Force Fundamentals 101 (JTF-101)                       P-US013-08
  Module 8: Joint Reception, Staging, Onward Movement, and
                         Integration (JRSOI)
    Joint Operation Planning and Execution System (JOPES)                     P-US352
                   Executive Presentation Course
                      JOPES Overview Course                                  P-US351
                      NATO Logistics Course                                  T-MN078
     Introduction to NATO School Logistics and Movement                      T-MN423
                    Operational Planning Course
   Joint Deployment Distribution Operations Center (JDDOC)                    P-US116
                               Course
  JTF – Port Opening, Seaport of Debarkation (JTF-PO SPOD)                    P-US399
                               Course
                  The JTF – Port Opening Course                               P-US143
                  Joint Petroleum Training Course                             P-US450
 SSGN – Joint Special Operations Task Force (JSOTF) Training                  P-US343
                               Course

5. Exportable Courses. Go to the Air Force Distance Learning System (ADLS) website for a
complete listing of distance learning courses available for supply chain management training.

6. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) Courses: AFIT is the Air Force’s premier
institution of professional and graduate education in acquisition, logistics, engineering, and
management. Go to http://www.afit.edu/ls/courselist.cfm for more information.

7. Department of Defense Courses.

7.1. Defense Acquisition University (DAU): DAU coordinates the acquisition education and
training programs to meet the training requirements of approximately 132,000 DoD Acquisition,
Technology and Logistics (AT&L) workforce personnel. As the DoD corporate university for
acquisition education, the DAU sponsors curriculum and instructor training to provide a full
range of basic, intermediate, advanced, and assignment-specific courses to support the career
goals and professional development of the AT&L Workforce. Information and course
descriptions can be found at http://www.dau.mil/.

7.2. Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA). DTRA courses can be found at the
following link: www.dtra.mil/oe/cs/programs/training/dnws/registration.cfm.




                                                29
PART II

SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIAL

1. FOLLOW-ON UNIT TRAINING. Designed to teach new officers how concepts presented
at technical school instruction are applied at the unit level.

1.1. Concept. Officers must complete the LOOP unit training prior to AETC formal training.
The intent of follow-on unit training is to provide a local training plan to familiarize officers with
unit specific procedures and operations. Follow-on unit training consists of the tasks identified
under the respective core competency in charts 6-8. Officers will not be upgraded to a fully
qualified level until satisfactorily completing both AETC formal training and appropriate
CFETP core competency. One successful occurrence does not necessarily constitute
understanding of the training objective, but it should provide the individual with a basic
understanding of subject areas.

1.2. Training plan. The instructional design for unit level training is determined locally.
Appropriate lesson plans, support materials, and instructor guidance are the responsibility of
each unit. Unit training may include work center and field visits, task observations, classroom
instruction, self-study, supervisor/commander interaction to meet training objectives.

1.3. Familiarization Training and Work Center Visits. Officers must observe familiarization
tasks from start to finish. Supervisors will ensure pre-task, task, and post-task actions are
included. Training may be conducted concurrent with team training operations or during routine
logistics operations. Instructors/supervisors will ensure officers understand the fundamentals of
each task, why it is performed, associated hazards, and the overall enterprise impact. Unit
training should also include work center visits. Visits consist of tours of all logistics work
centers and key support agencies as determined by the commander/supervisor.

1.4. Training Documentation. Document the officer’s training in TBA.

1.4.1. Supervisors will review TBA with trainees at an initial interview within 60-days of the
trainee’s assignment to the unit. During the interview the supervisor and trainee will discuss
core task requirements (identified by an *) and explain that core tasks must be completed within
24-months after assignment to a 21R position. Document the initial interview in TBA notes.

1.4.2. Supervisors will identify tasks, in addition to the core tasks, the trainee will be required to
complete. As some installations may not have all the required equipment, supervisors will
identify core tasks able to be completed in TBA. Only those tasks not circled by the supervisor
may be waived. Every effort should be made by the trainee to meet the core task requirement
when able (TDY, loaner equipment, etc.).

1.4.3. For the Basic Certification Training Task List, supervisors will review training progress
with trainees quarterly. Supervisors will conduct the review on this basis until all items are
complete. Documentation of this review will be in TBA.



                                                  30
PART II

SECTION D - ORIENTATION PROGRAM - HOME STATION TRAINING

Logistics Readiness Officer Orientation Program (LOOP). Unit commanders are required to
implement this orientation program for all first-assignment LROs. The objective is to provide a
foundation for their career in logistics readiness. LRO orientation should occur immediately
upon arrival at first duty assignment and must conclude prior to attendance at the LRO basic
course. LOOP is a three-phased program: Phase I consists of an initial interview, Phase II
consists of squadron and support agency orientation, Phase III consists of equipment and vehicle
familiarization. In developing the orientation program, commanders should use mission briefs,
tours, “shadowing,” directive reviews, etc., to accomplish the objectives of the program.




                                               31
          Chart 4. Logistics Readiness Officer Orientation Program (LOOP)


                                LRO Orientation Program
Requirement Operations Officer Signature/ Date Completed

Note: Must be completed




                                                                             Initials/Date
              Knowledge




                                                                              Trainer
                                                     Start Date


                                                                  Complete
                                                                  Trainee
                                                                  Initials
                                                                  Date
1            Phase I: Initial Interview.
             The squadron commander
             accomplishes initial interview
             to determine individual’s
             experience/background
2            Phase II: Orientations are to
             familiarize the officer with
             duties, responsibilities, key
             personnel, and location of
             each squadron/group/wing
             agency with a role in logistics
             support (i.e. deployment
             machine). Tours and briefings
             will include:
2.1          Logistics Readiness Squadron
             and areas of responsibility
             (flights and functions)
2.1.1        Operations Officer and their
             areas of responsibility
2.1.1.1      Functions & responsibilities of
             Operations Compliance
2.1.2        Functions of the deployment
             machine; tour, receive a
             briefing on each function (i.e.,
             DCC, CDF, PDF, IDRC)
2.2          Aerial Port/Air Mobility
             Squadron areas of
             responsibility (flights and
             functions, if available at base)
2.2.1        Operations Officer and their
             areas of responsibility




                                                32
                                                                    Initials/Date
      Knowledge




                                                                     Trainer
                                            Start Date


                                                         Complete
                                                         Trainee
                                                         Initials
                                                         Date
2.3   Logistics Support Center and
      areas of responsibility (if
      available at location)
3     Phase III: Vehicle and
      Equipment Familiarization
      Training:
3.1   Vehicle familiarization
      training will provide general
      familiarization on MHE,
      general-purpose and special
      purpose vehicles
3.2   Equipment familiarization will
      provide general
      familiarization on systems
      (SATS/GATES, etc.)
      equipment and processes




                                       33
PART II

SECTION E – LRO CORE COMPETENCY TRAINING RECORD

The LRO Core Competency Training Record is comprised of materiel management, distribution
and contingency operations training matrices. While ideal, officers do not have to be assigned to
a work center in a specific core competency to accomplish associated training requirements. The
officer must be assigned to the work center for the required 12-month to be awarded the
applicable SEI. Officers must accomplish all tasks in a core competency training record
available on location (see note below) and have the same recorded in TBA by their trainer, in
addition to completing the corresponding exportable course (AFIT 140, 141, or 142) before they
petition their squadron commander for certification in that core competency. The commander
will determine if a trainee requires remedial training before approving certification.
Commanders will accomplish certification by forwarding an AF Form 2096 to the FSS to award
the appropriate SEI.

NOTE: If process is not available at a particular location, trainers may line through and initial
the process area. This action will waive the requirement for that specific process. However,
commanders must review/verify each lined through item prior to considering for upgrade to
21R3 and submitting an AF Form 2096.

How to Use the LRO Training Record:

The commander/supervisor is encouraged to use task experts (i.e., Operations Officer, Flight
Commanders and SNCOs/NCOs) to conduct LRO core competency training. Upon completion
of training, the trainer should make appropriate annotations in TBA. Once the unit commander
is satisfied that a trainee has achieved the required levels of understanding (see Chart 5 below)
for all tasks in a specific core competency training record and successfully completed the
correlating exportable course, the trainee may petition the unit commander for certification.

      Chart 5. Logistics Readiness Officer Training Record Levels of Understanding

             Each key process or knowledge area must be completed before completing the core
             competency.
1 Skill      Ability to identify or be familiar with particular process/task
Level
2 Skill      Ability to understand and fully explain the process/task
Level
3 Skill      Ability to demonstrate and apply the process/concept
Level




                                                34
                        Chart 6. Contingency Operations Training Matrix

                                                                  Operations Officer
1.1 Contingency Operations                                        Signature/Date Completed
Core Competency

Note: To complete the Contingency Operations Core Competency Training Matrix, the trainee MUST have
ALL processes/knowledge areas signed.


Note: If a process/knowledge area is not available at a particular location, trainers may line through and
initial the process/knowledge area. This action will waive the requirement for that specific process. However,
Commanders must review/verify each lined through process/knowledge area prior to submitting an AF Form
2096 to the FSS or local personnel function.




                                                                                                                                                       Level of understanding
                                                                                                                           Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                      Completion Date


                                                                                                        Trainee Initials
                                                                         Start Date
           Knowledge
1.1.1      DOCTRINE
           TR: AFDD 1
*1.1.1.1   Identify the types of doctrine                                                                                                          1
1.1.2      AEROSPACE PLANNING
           TR: JP 4; AFDD 1; AFDD 2; AFDD 40; AFI 10-
           400; AFI 10-402; AFI 10-1301
*1.1.2.1   Explain National Mobilization                                                                                                           2
*1.1.2.2   Identify the concepts of air campaign planning                                                                                          1
*1.1.2.3   Explain the concepts of Agile Combat Support                                                                                            2
*1.1.2.4   Explain the concept of Expeditionary Aerospace
           Force (EAF)                                                                                                                             2
*1.1.2.5   Explain the principles and processes of
           Expeditionary Combat Support                                                                                                            2




                                                       35
                                                                                                                                               Level of understanding
                                                                                                                   Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                              Completion Date


                                                                                                Trainee Initials
                                                                 Start Date
             Knowledge
1.1.3        LOG C2 - PLANNING SYSTEMS
             TR: JP 3-08, AFI 10-401; AFSC PUB 1; CJCSI
             3100.01; CJCSM 3122.03
1.1.3.1      PLANNING SYSTEMS
             TR: JP 3-08, AFI 10-401; AFSC PUB 1; CJCSI
             3100.01; CJCSM 3122.03
*1.1.3.1.1   Explain the Joint Operations Planning and
             Execution System (JOPES)                                                                                                      2
*1.1.3.1.2   Explain the purpose of the Global Command and
             Control System (GCCS)                                                                                                         2
*1.1.3.1.3   Explain the relationship between JOPES and the
             Air Force contingency planning process                                                                                        2
1.1.3.2      LOG C2
*1.1.3.2.1   Identify purpose of LOGMOD                                                                                                    1
*1.1.3.2.2   Demonstrate the ability to create a passenger and
             cargo LOGMOD schedule                                                                                                         3
1.1.3.3      LOG C2 - INTEGRATED DEPLOYMENT
             SYSTEM (IDS)
             TR: AFI 10-403, AFI 10-401; AFJMAN 24-204;
             On-Line LOGMOD Help
*1.1.3.3.1   Explain role of IDS                                                                                                           2
*1.1.3.3.2   Summarize IDS Components                                                                                                      2
1.1.4        PLANS MANAGEMENT
             TR: AFPD 10-4; AFI 10-404; AFI 10-208; AFI 10-
             401, Vol 2; AFI 10-501
*1.1.4.1     Develop Deployment Exercise Plans                                                                                             2
*1.1.4.2     Summarize shortfalls and limiting factors
             (LIMFACs)                                                                                                                     2
1.1.4.3      PLANS MANAGEMENT - CONTINGENCY
             PLANNING
             TR: JP5; AFSC PUB 1; AFDD 2; AFI 10-401; AFI
             10-403; CJCSM 3122.01; CJCSM 3122.02;
             CJCSM 3122-03; CJCSM 3150.01
*1.1.4.3.1   Interpret the War and Mobilization Plan (WMP)
             documents                                                                                                                     2
*1.1.4.3.2   Explain the planning phases of the contingency
             planning process                                                                                                              2




                                                        36
                                                                                                                                             Level of understanding
                                                                                                                 Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                            Completion Date


                                                                                              Trainee Initials
                                                               Start Date
             Knowledge
*1.1.4.3.3   Analyze Time Phased Force and Deployment Data
             (TPFDD)                                                                                                                     3
*1.1.4.3.4   Translate the Manpower, Equipment Force,
             Packaging (MEFPAK)                                                                                                          2
*1.1.4.3.5   Explain the UTC development process                                                                                         2
1.1.4.4      PLANS MANAGEMENT - CRISIS ACTION
             PLANNING
             TR: JP5; AFSC PUB 1; AFDD2; AFI 10-401; AFI
             10-403; CJCSM 3122.01; CJCSM 3122.02;
             CJCSM 3122.03
*1.1.4.4.1   Explain the phases of crisis action planning                                                                                2
1.1.5        INSTALLATION DEPLOYMENT PLANNING
             - CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS & CRISIS
             ACTION PLANNING
             TR: JP4; AFDD1; AFI 10-403; AFDD2; AFDD 40;
             AFI 10-400; AFI 10-402; AFI 10-1301; AFPD 10-4
1.1.5.1      Compare the steps between contingency planning
             and crisis action planning processes
*1.1.5.1.1   Explain role of Installation Deployment Officer
             (IDO)                                                                                                                       2
*1.1.5.1.2   Explain tenets of Agile Combat Support                                                                                      2
*1.1.5.1.3   Explain Expeditionary Aerospace Force (EAF)
             Concept                                                                                                                     2
*1.1.5.1.4   Compare concepts of Expeditionary Combat
             Support (ECS), Institutional Force and Combat
             Forces                                                                                                                      2
1.1.5.2      INSTALLATION DEPLOYMENT PLANNING -
             DEPLOYMENT/REDEPLOYMENT PLANNING
             TR: AFI 10-401; AFI 10-403; AFI 10-404; AFCAT
             21-209; LOGMOD ON-LINE HELP; WMP 1,
             ANNEX E
*1.1.5.2.1   Describe Pre-Deployment planning                                                                                            2
*1.1.5.2.2   Identify deployment organizational structure                                                                                1
*1.1.5.2.3   Summarize Installation Deployment Plan (IDP)                                                                                2
*1.1.5.2.4   Explain key elements of a LOGMOD Schedule
                                                                                                                                         2
*1.1.5.2.5   Conduct Deployment Process Working Group
             (DPWG)                                                                                                                      2




                                                        37
                                                                                                                                              Level of understanding
                                                                                                                  Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                             Completion Date


                                                                                               Trainee Initials
                                                                Start Date
             Knowledge
*1.1.5.2.6   Conduct Installation Deployment Readiness Cell
             (IDRC) Operations                                                                                                            3
*1.1.5.2.7   Develop and Conduct Concept Brief                                                                                            3
*1.1.5.2.8   Explain Redeployment Planning                                                                                                2

1.1.6        BASE SUPPORT PLANNING
             TR: AFI 10-404; AFI 10-403
*1.1.6.1     Define base support planning                                                                                                 1
*1.1.6.2     Conduct Base Support Planning (BSP)                                                                                          2
*1.1.6.3     Interpret LIMFACs in base support planning                                                                                   2
*1.1.6.4     Conduct an annual reception exercise                                                                                         2
1.1.7        READINESS
             TR: AFI 10-201
*1.1.7.1     Translate Designed Operational Capability (DOC)
             Statement                                                                                                                    2
*1.1.7.2     Differentiate between ART, SORTS, and DRRS                                                                                   3
1.1.8        DEPLOYMENT OPERATIONS – SITE
             SURVEYS
             TR: AFI 10-404
*1.1.8.1     Illustrate site survey processes                                                                                             2
*1.1.8.2     Produce site survey data/libraries (e.g. BaS&E,
             NGA, AMC, etc.)                                                                                                              3
1.1.9        WAR RESERVE MATERIEL (WRM)
             MANAGEMENT
             TR: AFPD 25-1; AFI 25-101, AFI 10-401; AFI 10-
             403; AFI 10-404; AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122;
             AFH 23-123 Vol 1 & Vol 2; DODD 3110.6
*1.1.9.1     Explain purpose of WRM program                                                                                               2
*1.1.9.2     Describe role of WRMPM and WRMO                                                                                              1
*1.1.9.3     Illustrate budgetary process/procedures of WRM
             funding (to include MAJCOM role)                                                                                             2
*1.1.9.4     Explain WRM categories                                                                                                       2
*1.1.9.5     Interpret War Plans Additive Requirements Report
             (WPARR)                                                                                                                      2
*1.1.9.6     Interpret War Consumables Distribution Objective
             (WCDO)                                                                                                                       2
*1.1.9.7     Interpret Inventory Management Plan (IMP)                                                                                    2


                                                       38
                                                                                                                                             Level of understanding
                                                                                                                 Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                            Completion Date


                                                                                              Trainee Initials
                                                               Start Date
            Knowledge
*1.1.9.8    Interpret Vehicle Authorization List (VAL)                                                                                   2
*1.1.9.9    Interpret Wartime Aircraft Activity Report
            (WAAR) extract                                                                                                               2
*1.1.9.10   Interpret WRM use codes                                                                                                      2
1.1.10      SUPPORT AGREEMENTS
            TR: AFI 25-201
*1.1.10.1   Explain the purpose of agreements                                                                                            2
*1.1.10.2   Describe agreements roles and responsibilities                                                                               2
*1.1.10.3   Describe types of agreements                                                                                                 2
1.1.11      LOG 140 CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
*1.1.11.1   Successfully complete course and pass all end of
            module exams                                                                                                                 2




                                                         39
                                Chart 7. Distribution Training Matrix

1.2Distribution
Core Competency                                              Operations Officer Signature/Date Completed
Note: To complete the Distribution Core Competency Training Matrix, the trainee MUST have ALL
processes/knowledge areas signed off.


Note: If a process/knowledge area is not available at a particular location, trainers may line through and initial the
process/knowledge area. This action will waive the requirement for that specific process. However, Commanders
must review/verify each lined through process/knowledge area prior to submitting an AF Form 2096.




                                                                                                                                                        Level of understanding
                                                                                                                            Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                       Completion Date



                                                                                                         Trainee Initials
                                                                          Start Date
              Knowledge
1.2.1         TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
1.2.1.1       CARGO MOVEMENT GENERAL
              TR: DOD 4500.9R Part II, AFI 24-303, AFI 91-
              302, AFPAM 24-237, AFJMAN 24-206, AFMAN
              24-204, AFOSH STD 91-501, MIL-STD 2073,
              MIL-STD 129, TO 00-85 series, Carriers’
              Classification and Rate Tariffs, NMFC, UFC,
              Channel Sequence Listing

*1.2.1.1.1    Identify the importance of the Transportation
              Discrepancy Reports (TDR), Report of Shipment
              (REPSHIP) and the personal property discrepancy
              reports
                                                                                                                                                    1
*1.2.1.1.2    Understand the Uniform Material Movement and
              Issue Priority System (UMMIPS), Required
              Delivery Date (RDD), and Project Codes, and TAC
              Codes
                                                                                                                                                    2
*1.2.1.1.3    Identify the various modes of shipment                                                                                                1
*1.2.1.1.4    Explain Secure Holding Areas (formerly safe
              haven/refuge)                                                                                                                         2
*1.2.1.1.5    Identify the methods of preparing, packing and
              crating cargo                                                                                                                         1
*1.2.1.1.6    Explain the shipping and receiving process                                                                                            2
*1.2.1.1.7    Identify the importance of controlling accountable
              forms                                                                                                                                 1
*1.2.1.1.8    Explain the importance of controlling classified,
              hazardous and NWRM cargo                                                                                                              2




                                                        40
                                                                                                                                                   Level of understanding
                                                                                                                       Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                  Completion Date



                                                                                                    Trainee Initials
                                                                     Start Date
              Knowledge
*1.2.1.1.9    Explain the importance of In-transit Visibility
              (ITV) and the Integrated Development
              Environment/Global Transportation Network
              Convergence (IGC)/Enterprise Solution-Supply
              (ESS)                                                                                                                            2
*1.2.1.1.10   Explain the importance of Cargo Movement
              Operations System (CMOS)                                                                                                         2
1.2.1.2       PERSONAL PROPERTY MOVEMENT
              ARRANGEMENTS
              TR: JFTR (Vol 1) JTR (Vol 2), Air Force
              Supplement/JFTR Vol 1 and JTR Vol 2, DOD
              4500-9R, Part IV, PPCIG (Vols 1 and 2), DD
              FORM 1797, DOD 4500.9R Part IV & V, AFPD
              24-4, Personal Property Rate Solicitation, SDDC
              Volume Rate, Defense Table of Official Distances
              (DTOD), AFI 64-102, TOPS Manual, MIL-STD
              129
*1.2.1.2.1    Explain how personal property movement
              entitlements are determined and the difference
              between household goods, unaccompanied
              baggage, professional equipment and storage
                                                                                                                                               2
*1.2.1.2.2    Identify privately owned vehicle entitlements
                                                                                                                                               1
*1.2.1.2.3    Identify the rules for shipping privately-owned
              firearms                                                                                                                         1
*1.2.1.2.4    Explain the process for individuals to perform self-
              procured/performed move                                                                                                          2
*1.2.1.2.5    Explain your role in regards to the movement of
              deceased personnel’s personal property
                                                                                                                                               2
*1.2.1.2.6    Identify the various personal property
              transportation documents                                                                                                         1
*1.2.1.2.7    Explain the function of the Defense Personal
              Property System (DPS) and self-counseling
                                                                                                                                               2
*1.2.1.2.8    Explain the personal property shipping procedures
              to include the relationship between the carrier and
              the service, loading/receiving process, inspections
              and movement entitlements
                                                                                                                                               2




                                                        41
                                                                                                                                                   Level of understanding
                                                                                                                       Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                  Completion Date



                                                                                                    Trainee Initials
                                                                     Start Date
              Knowledge
*1.2.1.2.9    Explain the codes of shipment for household goods
              and baggage                                                                                                                      2
*1.2.1.2.10   Identify proper use of the Personal Property
              Consignment and Info Guide World Wide
              (PPCIGW)                                                                                                                         1
*1.2.1.2.11   Explain Joint Personal Property Shipping Office
              (JPPSO) policies and procedures
                                                                                                                                               2
1.2.1.3       PASSENGER TRAVEL
              TR: DOD 4500.9R, JFTR (Vol 1), JTR (Vol 1 &
              2), AFI 24-101, AFI 24-501, Defense Table of
              Distances (DTOD), MTMC Volume Rate Printout
              (VRP), Domestic & International Rate Solicitation
              Guides, AFI 51-502, AFI 24-201, AFMAN 24-204,
              AFI 24-303, MIL-STD 129, TO 00-85 series,
              Foreign Clearance Guide, AFI 10-403, AFI 36-
              2101, AFI 38-201, AFI 90-201


*1.2.1.3.1    Identify passenger movement entitlements and
              responsibilities for passenger travel via government
              and/or commercial carriers                                                                                                       1
*1.2.1.3.2    Identify the mode(s), routing, and cost for
              passenger travel                                                                                                                 1
*1.2.1.3.3    Identify the functions of the Commercial Travel
              Office (CTO) and it’s surveillance program
                                                                                                                                               1
*1.2.1.3.4    Identify the movement of human remains                                                                                           2
*1.2.1.3.5    Understand rules regarding emergency leave travel
                                                                                                                                               2
*1.2.1.3.6    Identify the difference between Centrally Billed
              Account and Individually Billed Account and the
              billing cycle                                                                                                                    1
1.2.1.4       DEPLOYMENT OPERATIONS
              TR: AFMAN 10-401, AFI 10-403, DOD 4500.9R,
              AFI 10-201, AFI 36-6023
*1.2.1.4.1    Explain the role of Traffic Management in the
              deployment process                                                                                                               2
*1.2.1.4.2    Identify the concepts of deployment operations
                                                                                                                                               1




                                                        42
                                                                                                                                                 Level of understanding
                                                                                                                     Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                Completion Date



                                                                                                  Trainee Initials
                                                                   Start Date
             Knowledge
*1.2.1.4.3   Identify the importance of adequate deployment
             work centers and deployment training
                                                                                                                                             1
1.2.2        VEHICLE OPERATIONS
             TR: AFI 10-403; AFI 24-301, SFI 12-213;
             AFJMAN 24-306; AFOSH 91-100
*1.2.2.1     Identify vehicle operations responsibilities during
             mobility operations to include deployment,
             reception, operations and employment
             TR: AFI 10-403
                                                                                                                                             2
*1.2.2.2     Identify the functions of asset management                                                                                      1
*1.2.2.3     Explain the Motor Vehicle Use/Misuse Process
             TR: AFI 24-301                                                                                                                  2
*1.2.2.4     Explain the policies and procedures to operate
             vehicles in both peacetime and contingency
             environments
             TR: SFI 12-213; AFJMAN 24-306; AFOSH 91-
             100                                                                                                                             2
*1.2.2.5     Identify licensing procedures                                                                                                   1
*1.2.2.6     Identify dispatch procedures                                                                                                    1
1.2.3        AIR TRANSPORTATION
1.2.3.1      ORGANIZATION AND MISSION OF
             MILITARY AIRLIFT SYSTEMS
             TR: DTR 4500.9-R; AMCI 24-101; AFI 24-114;
             AFI 10-403
*1.2.3.1.1   Identify the organization and mission of the
             commands within the DoD airlift system                                                                                          1
*1.2.3.1.2   Identify the types and descriptions of organic and
             commercial transport aircraft and associated
             capabilities                                                                                                                    1
*1.2.3.1.3   Understand the mission and functions of the Aerial
             Port Squadron                                                                                                                   2
*1.2.3.1.4   Identify the types and descriptions of material
             handling equipment and associated capabilities
                                                                                                                                             1




                                                       43
                                                                                                                                                  Level of understanding
                                                                                                                      Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                 Completion Date



                                                                                                   Trainee Initials
                                                                    Start Date
              Knowledge
1.2.3.2       PASSENGER SERVICE OPERATIONS
              TR: DTR 4500.9-R, 4515.13, AMCI 24-101
              Volumes 14 & 15; AFI 24-101
*1.2.3.2.1    Explain customer relations and DV procedures
                                                                                                                                              2
*1.2.3.2.2    Explain how to determine travel eligibility                                                                                     2
*1.2.3.2.3    Identify how to manage standby listings                                                                                         1
*1.2.3.2.4    Explain delayed or diverted space required
              passengers policies                                                                                                             2
*1.2.3.2.5    Explain travel restrictions and border clearance
              requirements                                                                                                                    2
*1.2.3.2.6    Identify funds control procedures                                                                                               1
*1.2.3.2.7    Explain Space Available (SA) and Space Required
              (SR) passengers policies and procedures
                                                                                                                                              2
*1.2.3.2.8    Explain Passenger Terminal Security and
              Screening                                                                                                                       2
1.2.3.3       FLEET SERVICES
              TR: AMCI 24-101;Vol 10 and 14; Appropriate
              Aircraft -9’s and -1’s
*1.2.3.3.1    Understand the role and functions of Fleet Services
              in Aerial Port operations                                                                                                       2
1.2.3.4       AIR TERMINAL OPERATIONS
              TR: AMCI 24-101 Volume 9
*1.2.3.4.1    Identify the need for information control/work
              center coordination                                                                                                             1
*1.2.3.4.2    Demonstrate ramp control                                                                                                        3
*1.2.3.4.3    Identify the concept of capability forecasting
                                                                                                                                              1
*1.2.3.4.4    Understand the role of Customer Service
              Branch/Airlift Clearance Authority                                                                                              2
*1.2.3.4.5    Understand the QAE process for contract
              commercial aircraft documentation                                                                                               2
*1.2.3.4.6.   Identify how to process/coordinate Human
              Remains from originating/en route/arrival stations
                                                                                                                                              2




                                                        44
                                                                                                                                                Level of understanding
                                                                                                                    Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                               Completion Date



                                                                                                 Trainee Initials
                                                                  Start Date
             Knowledge
1.2.3.5      AIR CARGO PROCEDURES
             TR: DODR 4500.32, 4500.9; AFJMAN 24-204;
             AFPD 24-2; AMCI 24-101 Volume 11, Mil Std
             129; CFR 49, AMCI 24.101 Volume 9; AFI 24-201


*1.2.3.5.1   Identify how to process originating cargo/mail
                                                                                                                                            1
*1.2.3.5.2   Identify how to process terminating and in-transit
             cargo/mail                                                                                                                     1
*1.2.3.5.3   Identify the concepts of load planning and 38%
             mean aerodynamic chord (MAC)
             TR: AMCI 24-101 Vol 9, 9.5.1                                                                                                   1
*1.2.3.5.4   Explain the tradeoff between velocity and
             maximum aircraft utilization
             TR: AMCI 24-101 Vol 9                                                                                                          2
*1.2.3.5.5   Explain palletization procedures                                                                                               2
*1.2.3.5.6   Explain special handling cargo procedures (e.g.
             Signature service, Human remains, Nuclear
             Weapon Related Material (NWRM), registered
             mail, and classified shipment)
                                                                                                                                            2
*1.2.3.5.7   Identify how to expedite priority shipment                                                                                     1
*1.2.3.5.8   Explain hazardous/explosive materials movement
                                                                                                                                            2
*1.2.3.5.9   Explain importance of hazardous/explosive
             materials compatibility                                                                                                        2
1.2.3.6      RAMP OPERATIONS
             TR: DTR 4500.9-R; AFPD 24-2; TOs 00-25-172;
             AMCI 24-101
*1.2.3.6.1   Explain procedures for loading/offloading aircraft
                                                                                                                                            2
*1.2.3.6.2   Identify the role of the Aerial Port Expeditor
             Program (APEX)                                                                                                                 1
*1.2.3.6.3   Identify Engine run on/off loading (ERO)
             procedures                                                                                                                     1
*1.2.3.6.4   Explain Operational Risk Management (ORM) of
             ramp operations                                                                                                                2




                                                         45
                                                                                                                                              Level of understanding
                                                                                                                  Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                             Completion Date



                                                                                               Trainee Initials
                                                                Start Date
             Knowledge
1.2.3.7      MOBILITY OPERATIONS
             TR: DTR 4500.9-R; AFI 10-403; AFORMAN 10-
             100, 10-401; AMCI 24-101
*1.2.3.7.1   Explain deployment mission and work centers
             (Home Station/Deployed)                                                                                                      2
*1.2.3.7.2   Explain the Joint Inspection (JI) process                                                                                    2
*1.2.3.7.3   Explain the roles and missions of Contingency
             Response Wings and Groups, Combat Mobility
             Element (CRW/CRG/CME)                                                                                                        2
1.2.3.8      AUTOMATED INFORMATION SYSTEMS

*1.2.3.8.1   Be familiar the Integrated Development
             Environment/Global Transportation Network
             Convergence (IGC)                                                                                                            1
*1.2.3.8.2   Be familiar with the Global Decision Support
             System (GDSS)                                                                                                                1
*1.2.3.8.3   Be familiar with the Global Air Transportation
             Execution System (GATES) and Cargo Movement
             Operating System (CMOS)
                                                                                                                                          1
*1.2.3.8.4   Be familiar with the Command and Control
             Integrated Process System (C2IPS)                                                                                            1
*1.2.3.8.5   Be familiar the Integrated Computerized
             Deployment System (ICODES)                                                                                                   1
*1.2.3.8.6   Be familiar with Radio Frequency Identification
             (RFID)                                                                                                                       1
1.2.4        LOG 141, Distribution
*1.2.4.1     Successfully complete course and pass all end of
             module exams                                                                                                                 2




                                                         46
                          Chart 8. Materiel Management Training Matrix

1.3 Materiel Management                                            Operations Officer Signature/Date
                                                                   Completed
Core Competency



Note: To complete Materiel Management Core Competency Training Matrix), the trainee MUST have ALL
processes/knowledge areas signed off (working at an LSC would require the trainee to get SOME base level
experience during that assignment).


Note: If a process/knowledge area is not available at a particular location, trainers may line through and initial the
process/knowledge area. This action will waive the requirement for that specific process. However, Commanders
must review/verify each lined through process/knowledge area prior to submitting an AF Form 2096.




                                                                              Start Date



                                                                                           Completion Date




                                                                                                                                Trainer Initials/Date


                                                                                                                                                            Level of understanding
                                                                                                             Trainee Initials
                 Knowledge
1.3.1            ASSET MANAGEMENT (Materiel Management)
1.3.1.1          BENCH STOCK
                 TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122; AFH 23-123 Vol 1
                 & Vol 2
*1.3.1.1.1       Understand the bench stock concept                                                                                                     2
*1.3.1.1.2       Understand the Master Bench Stock List (S04)                                                                                           2
*1.3.1.1.3       Understand the Bench Stock Review List (M04)                                                                                           2
1.3.1.2          Mission Impaired Condition Awaiting Parts
                 (MICAP) PROCESSES
                 TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122; AFH 23-123 Vol 1
                 & Vol 2
1.3.1.2.1        Understand the MICAP concept and the varying
                 levels of responsibilities:
*1.3.1.2.1.1     Base/Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC)/Supply
                 Chain Operations Wing (SCOW)                                                                                                           2
*1.3.1.2.1.2     MAJCOM                                                                                                                                 2
*1.3.1.2.1.3     Depot                                                                                                                                  2
*1.3.1.2.2       Understand how to check for local resources                                                                                            2
*1.3.1.2.3       Analyze and Interpret cause codes                                                                                                      3
*1.3.1.2.4       Analyze and Interpret delete codes                                                                                                     3
*1.3.1.2.5       Understand how to monitor/update MICAP status                                                                                          2
*1.3.1.2.6       Understand MICAP Reporting Systems                                                                                                     2



                                                        47
                                                                                                                                                       Level of understanding
                                                                                                                           Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                      Completion Date



                                                                                                        Trainee Initials
                                                                         Start Date
               Knowledge
1.3.1.3        STOCK CONTROL PROCESSES
               TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122; AFH 23-123 Vol 1
               & Vol 2
*1.3.1.3.1     Understand the purpose for stock management                                                                                         2
*1.3.1.3.2     Identify the different facets of stockage policy
               (demand based (i.e. MRSP) and non-demand based)                                                                                     1
*1.3.1.3.3     Understand the different types of levels                                                                                            2
*1.3.1.3.4     Understand the Readiness base level (RBL) concept                                                                                   2
*1.3.1.3.5     Identify MILSTRIP procedures                                                                                                        1
*1.3.1.3.6     Understand the Uniform Materiel Movement and
               Issue Priority System (UMMIPS)                                                                                                      3
*1.3.1.3.7     Understand the Force Activity Designator (FAD)
               concept                                                                                                                             3
*1.3.1.3.8     Know the importance of Due-out validation                                                                                           1
*1.3.1.3.9     Identify the base retention/excess program                                                                                          1
*1.3.1.3.10    Identify RAMPS and the need for timely reporting                                                                                    1
*1.3.1.3.11    Understand how requirements are funded                                                                                              2
*1.3.1.3.12    Know the process of requesting Supply
               assistance/supply difficulty                                                                                                        2
*1.3.1.3.13    Understand Local Purchase policies and procedures                                                                                   1
1.3.1.4        EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT PROCESSES
               TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122; AFH 23-123 Vol 2
               Pt 1
*1.3.1.4.1     Understand the Air Force Equipment Management
               System (AFEMS)                                                                                                                      2
*1.3.1.4.2     Identify the equipment management Allowance
               Source (AS) concept                                                                                                                 1
*1.3.1.4.3     Understand accountability requirements for Non-
               EAID equipment authorized inventory data                                                                                            2
*1.3.1.4.4     Be familiar with the Organizational Visibility List (R-
               15)                                                                                                                                 1
*1.3.1.4.5     Identify the process involved in requesting equipment
               (AF Form 601/2005/TACR)                                                                                                             1
*1.3.1.4.6     Identify the establishment of In-use details                                                                                        1
1.3.1.4.7      Identify the various EAID products and listings:
*1.3.1.4.7.1   Q09 - Allowance source code listing                                                                                                 1
*1.3.1.4.7.2   Q10 - Out-of-balance listing                                                                                                        1



                                                      48
                                                                                                                                                      Level of understanding
                                                                                                                          Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                     Completion Date



                                                                                                       Trainee Initials
                                                                        Start Date
               Knowledge
*1.3.1.4.7.3   R14 - Custodian authorization/custody receipt listing                                                                              1
*1.3.1.4.7.4   R25 SPRAM listing                                                                                                                  1
*1.3.1.4.8     Understand Special Purpose Recoverable Authorized
               Maintenance (SPRAM)
                                                                                                                                                  1
1.3.1.5        REPAIR CYCLE MANAGEMENT PROCESSES
               TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122 Sec 4C, TOs 00-
               20-3, 00-35D-54
*1.3.1.5.1     Manage Due-In From Maintenance (DIFM) items                                                                                        2
*1.3.1.5.2     Ability to interpret the repair cycle asset management
               listing (D23)                                                                                                                      3
1.3.1.5.3      Understand DIFM processing
*1.3.1.5.3.1   Understand DIFM reconciliation                                                                                                     2
*1.3.1.5.3.2   Understand impacts of Turnaround Action (TRN)                                                                                      2
*1.3.1.5.3.3   Understand DIFM codes                                                                                                              2
*1.3.1.5.4     Be able to read and interpret Awaiting Parts (AWP)
               (D19)                                                                                                                              2
*1.3.1.5.5     Understand the concept of time change items                                                                                        2
*1.3.1.5.6     Understand how to manage time compliance technical
               orders                                                                                                                             2
*1.3.1.5.7     Understand the concept of Depot Level Reparables
               (DLR)                                                                                                                              2
*1.3.1.5.8     Understand the concept behind Supply points and how
               they are managed                                                                                                                   2
*1.3.1.5.9     Understand Supply point detail records                                                                                             2
*1.3.1.5.10    Monitor/review repair cycle data list Q04                                                                                          2
1.3.2          ACCOUNTABILITY (Materiel Management)
1.3.2.1        ISSUE PROCEDURES
               TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122 Ch 5, 9, 10; AFH
               23-123 Vol 1 & Vol 2 Pt 1 AFR 0-2;TOs 0-1-01, 00-
               5-1, Illustrated Parts Breakdown (IPB); FEDLOG,
               D043
*1.3.2.1.1     Prepare issue                                                                                                                      1
*1.3.2.1.2     Process the issue                                                                                                                  1




                                                      49
                                                                                                                                                        Level of understanding
                                                                                                                            Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                       Completion Date



                                                                                                         Trainee Initials
                                                                          Start Date
                 Knowledge
1.3.2.2          RESEARCH/RECORDS MAINTENANCE
                 PROCEDURES
                 TR: AFMAN 23-122
1.3.2.2.1        Understand the manual research process:
*1.3.2.2.1.1     DoD 4145.19-R                                                                                                                      2
*1.3.2.2.2       Understand the structure of national stock number                                                                                  2
1.3.2.2.3        Know the various research systems:
*1.3.2.2.3.1     D043, Master item identification and control system                                                                                1
*1.3.2.2.3.2     FEDLOG                                                                                                                             2
*1.3.2.2.4       Process an Item record: load, change, and delete                                                                                   2
*1.3.2.2.5       Know Structure of the Expendability, Recoverability,
                 Reparability, Cost (ERRC) code                                                                                                     1
*1.3.2.2.6       Understand Interchangeability and Substitution Group
                 (I&SG) records                                                                                                                     1
1.3.2.3          TURN-IN PROCEDURES
1.3.2.3.1        Understand how the turn-in process affects
                 accountable records and the differences in the various
                 types of turn in commodities
*1.3.2.3.1.1     Consumables/expendables                                                                                                            2
*1.3.2.3.1.2     Repair cycle                                                                                                                       2
*1.3.2.3.1.3     Equipment                                                                                                                          2
1.3.2.3.1.4      Exception processing
*1.3.2.3.1.4.1   FOB                                                                                                                                2
*1.3.2.3.1.4.2   Hazardous material                                                                                                                 2
*1.3.2.3.1.4.3   MDR/PQDR                                                                                                                           2
*1.3.2.3.1.5     In-check property for turn-in                                                                                                      2
*1.3.2.3.1.6     Inspect property for assignment of condition code                                                                                  2
*1.3.2.3.1.7     Process turn-in                                                                                                                    2
1.3.2.4          INQUIRIES
                 TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122; AFH 23-123 Vol 2
                 Pt 1
1.3.2.4.1        Define types of inquiries:
*1.3.2.4.1.1     Item record                                                                                                                        2




                                                       50
                                                                                                                                                       Level of understanding
                                                                                                                           Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                      Completion Date



                                                                                                        Trainee Initials
                                                                         Start Date
               Knowledge
*1.3.2.4.1.2   Detail record                                                                                                                       2
*1.3.2.4.1.3   Part number                                                                                                                         2
*1.3.2.4.2     Analyze and interpret the consolidated transaction
               history (CTH)                                                                                                                       3
*1.3.2.4.3     Understand a Repair cycle record                                                                                                    2
*1.3.2.4.4     Understand a Requirements computation                                                                                               2
*1.3.2.4.5     Understand the capabilities of the DISCOVERER tool                                                                                  2
1.3.2.5        INSPECTION PROCESSES
               TR: AFMAN 23-122
*1.3.2.5.1     Identify the different Condition tags/labels                                                                                        1
*1.3.2.5.2     Know the different Condition codes                                                                                                  2
*1.3.2.5.3     Understand Condition changes                                                                                                        2
*1.3.2.5.4     Understand Identity changes                                                                                                         2
1.3.2.5.5      Understand inspection requirements for various
               commodities
*1.3.2.5.5.1   Understand Shelf life items                                                                                                         2
*1.3.2.5.5.2   Identify Petroleum/chemicals                                                                                                        1
*1.3.2.5.5.3   Understand Functional check items                                                                                                   2
*1.3.2.5.5.4   TCTO items                                                                                                                          2
*1.3.2.5.5.5   Suspect/unsuitable materiel                                                                                                         1
*1.3.2.5.5.6   Health hazard items                                                                                                                 2
*1.3.2.5.5.7   Material safety data sheets (MSDS)                                                                                                  2
*1.3.2.5.5.8   Electrostatic sensitive devices/electrostatic discharge
               (ESD) items                                                                                                                         2
1.3.2.6        STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION PROCESSES
               TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122; AFH 23-123 Vol 2
               Pt 1
*1.3.2.6.1     Identify how to configure Storage space; layout a
               warehouse for the most effective utilization                                                                                        1
*1.3.2.6.2     Understand general principles of how to store
               property                                                                                                                            2
*1.3.2.6.3     Understand the stock location system                                                                                                2
*1.3.2.6.4     Know the purpose of monitoring Daily Document
               Register (D04)                                                                                                                      2




                                                       51
                                                                                                                                                     Level of understanding
                                                                                                                         Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                    Completion Date



                                                                                                      Trainee Initials
                                                                       Start Date
               Knowledge
1.3.2.6.5      Understand how property is pulled and distributed
*1.3.2.6.5.1   Identify how property is Issued                                                                                                   1
*1.3.2.6.5.2   Identify how property Due-out releases                                                                                            1
*1.3.2.6.5.3   Identify how/why a shipment occurs                                                                                                1
*1.3.2.6.6     Understand the process of warehouse location
               validation                                                                                                                        2
*1.3.2.6.7     Understand the processing of warehouse refusals                                                                                   2
*1.3.2.6.8     Identify the unique storage requirements for the
               Hazmat pharmacy                                                                                                                   1
*1.3.2.6.9     Identify organizational refusal procedures                                                                                        1
*1.3.2.6.10    Understand the use of the classified receipt list                                                                                 2
*1.3.2.6.11    Identify the uses of the delivery destination listing                                                                             1
1.3.2.7        INVENTORY PROCEDURES
               TR: AFMAN 23-122
1.3.2.7.1      Understand the various types of inventories and when
               they are appropriate for use
*1.3.2.7.1.1   Sample                                                                                                                            2
*1.3.2.7.1.2   Complete                                                                                                                          2
*1.3.2.7.1.3   Special                                                                                                                           2
*1.3.2.7.1.4   In-use/in place equipment                                                                                                         2
*1.3.2.7.2     Develop an inventory schedule                                                                                                     2
*1.3.2.7.3     Understand Nuclear Weapons Related Materiel
               (NWRM) Accountability & Positive Inventory
               Control (PIC)
               AFI 20-110                                                                                                                        2
*1.3.2.7.4     Understand how to process reverse posts, and their
               impact on inventories and accountable records                                                                                     2
*1.3.2.7.5     Analyze consolidated inventory adjustment document
               register (M10)                                                                                                                    2
1.3.3          MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT
               (Materiel Management)
1.3.3.1        DOCUMENT CONTROL
               TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122; AFH 23-123 Vol 1
               & Vol 2 Pt 1
*1.3.3.1.1     Identify what constitutes source documents                                                                                        1
*1.3.3.1.2     Identify the steps involved in document disposition                                                                               1




                                                       52
                                                                                                                                                    Level of understanding
                                                                                                                        Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                   Completion Date



                                                                                                     Trainee Initials
                                                                      Start Date
               Knowledge
*1.3.3.1.3     Understand how to manage and Resolve delinquent
               documents                                                                                                                        2
1.3.3.2        SUPPLY MANAGEMENT ACTIVITY GROUP
               (SMAG)
               TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122; AFH 23-123 Vol 1
               & Vol 2 Pt 1
1.3.3.2.1      Identify the CSAG Operating concept and the support
               divisions:
*1.3.3.2.1.1   MSD                                                                                                                              1
*1.3.3.2.1.2   GSD                                                                                                                              1
1.3.3.2.2      Identify the roles of the various Management levels:
*1.3.3.2.2.1   Division                                                                                                                         1
*1.3.3.2.2.2   MAJCOM                                                                                                                           1
*1.3.3.2.2.3   Region/SCOW                                                                                                                      1
*1.3.3.2.2.4   Supply funds (CSAG) manager                                                                                                      1
*1.3.3.2.3     Identify credit return policy                                                                                                    1
*1.3.3.2.4     Understand the importance of the Supply/DFAS
               interface (SMAS)                                                                                                                 2
*1.3.3.2.5     Understand the roles of the Resource Advisor                                                                                     2
1.3.3.3        REJECT/MANAGEMENT NOTICE PROGRAM
               TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122; AFH 23-123 Vol 2
               Pt 2 Ch 7
*1.3.3.3.1     Identify responsibilities in the reject management
               program                                                                                                                          1
*1.3.3.3.2     Define the steps involved in researching rejects                                                                                 1
*1.3.3.3.3     Define the steps involved in researching management
               notices                                                                                                                          1
*1.3.3.3.4     Identify the steps involved in resolving rejects                                                                                 1
1.3.3.4        POST-POST PROCESSING
               TR: AFH 23-123 Vol 2 Pt 1
*1.3.3.4.1     Understand the concept of Post-Post Processing                                                                                   2
1.3.3.5        PROCEDURES AND ANALYSIS PROCESSES

*1.3.3.5.1     Understand the concept behind the Self Inspection
               program                                                                                                                          2
*1.3.3.5.2     Understand how to conduct internal Annual
               Inspections



                                                       53
                                                                                                                                                      Level of understanding
                                                                                                                          Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                     Completion Date



                                                                                                       Trainee Initials
                                                                        Start Date
               Knowledge
*1.3.3.5.2.1   Develop Checklist                                                                                                                  2
*1.3.3.5.2.2   Develop Schedule                                                                                                                   2
*1.3.3.5.2.3   Develop Reports                                                                                                                    2
*1.3.3.5.3     Identify the importance of customer support visits                                                                                 1
*1.3.3.5.4     Identify the management reports and listings used to
               assess the health of the LRS                                                                                                       1
*1.3.3.5.5     Understand the importance and benefits of
               management analysis                                                                                                                2
*1.3.3.5.6     Identify the steps involved in documenting and
               releasing procedural changes                                                                                                       1
1.3.3.6        GENERAL TASKS AND KNOWLEDGE
               TR: AFI 23-101; AFMAN 23-122; AFH 23-123 Vol 1
               & Vol 2, AFR 40O-54, AFJMAN 23-215, AFI 23-
               111; AFI 91-301, DoD 4145.19-R-1; 40 CFG261;
               FED Standard 313; AF Internal Procedures for using
               the GPC
*1.3.3.6.1     Be familiar with Property responsibilities (AFI 23-
               111)                                                                                                                               1
*1.3.3.6.2     Be familiar with AFMAN 23-220 Reports of Survey                                                                                    1
*1.3.3.6.3     Be familiar with Supply Discrepancy Reports (SDR)                                                                                  1
*1.3.3.6.4     Identify Government-Wide Purchase Card (GWPC)
               procedures and the impact                                                                                                          1
*1.3.3.6.5     Be familiar with Environmental Management
               Information System (EMIS)                                                                                                          1
1.3.4          VEHICLE FLEET MANAGEMENT
1.3.4.1        VEHICLE FLEET MAINTENANCE
               MANAGEMENT
               TR: AFI 24-304; AFI 24-302; AFI 24-303; AFMAN
               24-307; AFMAN 24-309; TO 36-1-191
*1.3.4.1.1     Understand functions of vehicle
               maintenance/management units and staff                                                                                             2
*1.3.4.1.2     Be familiar with the vehicle maintenance budget                                                                                    2
*1.3.4.1.3     Define occupational safety, health, and environmental
               requirements as related to vehicle maintenance                                                                                     1
1.3.4.2        VEHICLE MANAGEMENT AND ANALYSIS
               ELEMENT
               TR: AFI 23-101, T.O. 36-1-191, AFI 24-302
*1.3.4.2.1     Identify and interpret computer generated listings and
               reconciliations                                                                                                                    1


                                                     54
                                                                                                                                                      Level of understanding
                                                                                                                          Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                     Completion Date



                                                                                                       Trainee Initials
                                                                        Start Date
               Knowledge
*1.3.4.2.2     Outline the scheduled maintenance program                                                                                          1
*1.3.4.2.3     Describe the rental/lease vehicle program                                                                                          1
*1.3.4.2.4     Identify management’s role in vehicle analyses                                                                                     1
*1.3.4.2.5     State your responsibilities regarding the Vehicle Buy
               Program                                                                                                                            1
*1.3.4.2.6     Specify the purpose of the Vehicle Control Program                                                                                 1
*1.3.4.2.7     Understand AF energy objectives for leased and AF-
               owned vehicles and practices that optimize vehicle
               energy consumption                                                                                                                 2
1.3.4.3        MATERIEL CONTROL
               TR: AFI 24-302; AFI 23-110; AFMAN 23-122
*1.3.4.3.1     Identify the importance of property responsibility and
               accountability                                                                                                                     1
*1.3.4.3.2     Identify the delayed maintenance and deferred parts
               programs                                                                                                                           1
1.3.5          FUELS MANAGEMENT
1.3.5.1        FUELS ORGANIZATION
               TR: AFI 23-201
*1.3.5.1.1     Describe Fuels Management Flight Organizational                                                                                    1
               Structure
*1.3.5.1.2     Describe Fuels Management Flight Internal                                                                                          1
               Relationships (Wing Level)
*1.3.5.1.3     Describe Fuels Management Flight External
               Relationships (Above Wing Level)                                                                                                   1
1.3.5.2        FUELS FACILITIES
               TR: AFOSH Stds 91-38, 91-67, 91-501; TOs 37-1-1,
               37A1-101, 42B-1-1, 42B-1-23, , 40CFR Series; AFIs
               23-201, 23-502; UFCs 3-460-01, 3-460-03; DoD
               4140.25M
1.3.5.2.1      Explain fuel and cryogenic system functions:
*1.3.5.2.1.1   Identify components                                                                                                                1
*1.3.5.2.1.2   Understand how to Inspect                                                                                                          2
*1.3.5.2.1.3   Understand how to Maintain                                                                                                         2
*1.3.5.2.1.4   Understand how to Receive                                                                                                          2
*1.3.5.2.1.5   Understand how to Issue                                                                                                            2
*1.3.5.2.1.6   Understand how to Transfer                                                                                                         2
*1.3.5.2.1.7   Identify how to Inventory Tanks                                                                                                    1




                                                      55
                                                                                                                                                        Level of understanding
                                                                                                                            Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                       Completion Date



                                                                                                         Trainee Initials
                                                                          Start Date
                Knowledge
1.3.5.2.2       Describe the process to assure fuels infrastructure
                readiness:
*1.3.5.2.2.1    Identify DLA Energy Sustainment, Restoration, and
                Modernization (SRM) projects                                                                                                        1
*1.3.5.2.2.2    Identify Fuels Infrastructure for Military Construction
                (MILCON)                                                                                                                            1
1.3.5.3         FUELS DISTRIBUTION
                TR: AFIs23-201, 23-302; AFOSH Stds 91-25, 91-38,
                91-501; TOs 00-20B-5, 00-25-172, 36-1-191
1.3.5.3.1       Understand the various means for distributing fuel
                products
*1.3.5.3.1.1    Identify Refueling units                                                                                                            1
*1.3.5.3.1.2    Explain how to inspect/maintain refueling units                                                                                     1
*1.3.5.3.1.3    Issue aviation fuel                                                                                                                 2
*1.3.5.3.1.4    Defuel aviation fuel                                                                                                                2
*1.3.5.3.1.5    Receive from bulk                                                                                                                   2
*1.3.5.3.1.6    Issue ground fuel                                                                                                                   2
*1.3.5.3.1.7    Identify a Hot Refuel                                                                                                               1
*1.3.5.3.1.8    Identify a Sortie Generating Operation (SGO)                                                                                        1
*1.3.5.3.1.9    Describe In-Shelter fuel servicing procedure                                                                                        1
*1.3.5.3.1.10   Describe aspects of a Concurrent Servicing
                Operations (CSO) procedures                                                                                                         2
*1.3.5.3.1.11   Identify Multi-source refuel
                                                                                                                                                    1
*1.3.5.3.2      Describe policies for use of Hydrants
                TR: AFI 23-201; AFOSH 91-38, 91-44; TOs 00-25-
                172; 35-1-3; 37A-1-101                                                                                                              1
*1.3.5.3.3      Identify Expediter Duties                                                                                                           1
1.3.5.4         COMPLIANCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL
                TR: AFOSH 91 SERIES; AFIs 20-112, 23-201, 23-
                204, 23-502,TOs 00-20B-5, 33D2-10 series. 37A-1-
                101, 37-1-1 42B Series, 42C series, TO 37A9-3-15-1,
                DoD 4140.25M
*1.3.5.4.1      Describe the LRS QA Functions & Responsibilities
                                                                                                                                                    2
*1.3.5.4.2      Identify the different types of inspections                                                                                         1
*1.3.5.4.3      Develop corrective action/root cause analysis                                                                                       2




                                                        56
                                                                                                                                                  Level of understanding
                                                                                                                      Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                 Completion Date



                                                                                                   Trainee Initials
                                                                    Start Date
               Knowledge
1.3.5.5        FUELS SERVICE CENTER (FSC)
               TR: DoD 4140.25M, 5126.46; AFIs 23-201, 23-204,
               23-502, T.O.s 42B-1-1, 42B-1-23; DLA Energy
               Policy Documents
*1.3.5.5.1     Explain the role of the Responsible Officer (RO)                                                                               1
1.3.5.5.2      Describe organizational responsibilities:
*1.3.5.5.2.1   Identify accounting via the Fuels Automated System                                                                             1
*1.3.5.5.2.2   Verify accuracy of transactions                                                                                                1
*1.3.5.5.2.3   Reconcile                                                                                                                      2
*1.3.5.5.2.4   Navigate the fuels enterprise system (Purple Hub)                                                                              1
*1.3.5.5.2.5   Describe Capabilities of Fuels Manager Defense
               (FORMD)                                                                                                                        2
*1.3.5.5.2.6   Review daily inventories                                                                                                       1
*1.3.5.5.2.7   Investigate fuel gains or losses                                                                                               1
*1.3.5.5.2.8   Process Inquiries/Analyze Computer Reports                                                                                     1
*1.3.5.5.3     Monitor IMP/WCDO Levels                                                                                                        1
*1.3.5.5.4     Review aircraft flying schedules                                                                                               1
*1.3.5.5.5     Conduct Mishap Reporting                                                                                                       1
*1.3.5.5.6     Submit Bulk Petroleum Contingency Report (REPOL)                                                                               1
1.3.5.6        LAB TASKS AND PROCEDURES
               TR: 42B Series
1.3.5.6.1      Obtain Samples:
*1.3.5.6.1.1   Fuel                                                                                                                           1
*1.3.5.6.1.2   Cryogenic                                                                                                                      1
*1.3.5.6.2     Identify Contaminated Products                                                                                                 1
1.3.5.6.3      Perform Tests:
*1.3.5.6.3.1   Bottle Method                                                                                                                  1
*1.3.5.6.3.2   Color and Particulate Assessment                                                                                               1
*1.3.5.6.3.3   Matched Weight                                                                                                                 1
*1.3.5.6.3.4   Flashpoint                                                                                                                     1
*1.3.5.6.3.5   Conductivity                                                                                                                   1
*1.3.5.6.3.6   FSII Content                                                                                                                   1
*1.3.5.6.3.7   Water Content                                                                                                                  1
*1.3.5.6.3.8   API Gravity                                                                                                                    1




                                                      57
                                                                                                                                                       Level of understanding
                                                                                                                           Trainer Initials/Date
                                                                                      Completion Date



                                                                                                        Trainee Initials
                                                                         Start Date
               Knowledge
*1.3.5.6.4     Describe the significance of quality tests                                                                                          2
*1.3.5.6.5     Describe Fuel Additives                                                                                                             1
*1.3.5.6.6     Use FORMD/AFTAT to review lab results                                                                                               1
*1.3.5.6.7     Lockout/Tagout Program                                                                                                              1
*1.3.5.6.8     Identify contents and use of aircraft crash kit                                                                                     1
1.3.5.7        IDENTIFY THE DIFFERENT TYPES OF FUELS
               MOBILITY EQUIPMENT
               TR: TO 37A9-3-1
*1.3.5.7.1     Explain functions of Fuels Operational Readiness
               Capability Equipment (FORCE)                                                                                                        1
*1.3.5.7.2     Identify Aerial Bulk Fuel Delivery System
               TR: TO 37A9-3-1                                                                                                                     1
1.3.6          LOG 142, Materiel Management
*1.3.6.1       Successfully complete course and pass all end of
               module exams                                                                                                                        2


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                                            JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                                    Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                    DCS/Installations, Logistics and Mission Support


Attachment
       CTS – Logistics Readiness Officer Basic Course




                                                       58
                                            Attachment 1

                                                                      CTS L3OBR21R1 0L1C

                    LOGISTICS READINESS OFFICER BASIC COURSE
                             BEHAVORIAL STATEMENTS

1. ORGANIZATION, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1.1. Describe the roles and responsibilities of base level logistics organizations.
1.2. Describe the roles and responsibilities of Logistic Readiness Officers (LRO) within base level
logistics organizations.
1.3. Identify logistics support above wing level.
1.4. Identify the Logistics Readiness Core competencies and supporting United States Air Force
(USAF) Specialties.
1.5. Identify squadron funding process.
1.6. Identify AF budgeting and Program Objective Memorandum processes.
1.7. Identify squadron level budgeting processes.
1.8. Identify squadron level budget execution processes.
1.9. Identify funding documents to include requests for purchase and fund cite authorizations.
1.10. Identify Joint logistics functions and core capabilities that are outside of logistics readiness and
maintenance organizations.
1.11. Recognize standard Air Staff and Joint Staff construct.
1.12. Explain Logistics Readiness compliance metrics and reports.
1.13. Describe the roles and responsibilities of Air Reserve Components within the total force
structure.
1.14 Identify the principles of the USAF Safety Program.
1.15. Identify squadron readiness roles and responsibilities.
1.16. Define Life Cycle Logistics.

2. THE AF/DOD SUPPLY CHAIN
2.1. Describe the purpose of Joint Logistics.
2.2. State the principles of Joint Logistics doctrine.
2.3. State the principles of USAF Logistics doctrine.
2.4. Describe Agile Combat Support Concept of Operations (ACS CONOPS)
2.5. Describe Supply Chain Management.
2.6. Describe how LROs support the Air Force and DoD Supply Chain.
2.7. Describe the concept of Total Asset Visibility (TAV)
2.8. Describe the primary USAF and DoD Information Technology (IT) Systems used to achieve
TAV.
2.9. List DoD Classes and SubKClasses of Supply.
2.10. Explain the importance of Intransit Visibility.

3. FUNDAMENTALS OF MATERIEL MANAGEMENT
3.1. Identify Materiel Management governing directives and principles.
3.2. Outline the duties and responsibilities of Accountable Officers.
3.3. Identify the IT systems that support Materiel Management.


                                                 59
3.4. Identify the Materiel Management budget process.

4. COMMODITY CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT
4.1. Identify commodity control requirements
4.2. Identify commodity control processes.
4.3. Identify how to resolve accountability discrepancies.
4.4. Identify the management processes for all classes of supply.
4.5. Restate the equipment management (EM) programs.
4.6. Restate the EM systems.
4.7. Restate the EM processes.
4.8. Recognize stockage principles.
4.9. Identify flight service center roles and responsibilities.
4.10. Identify key aspects of the Materiel Management and Customer Interfaces.
4.11. Explain fuels accountability requirements and related processes.
4.12. Identify fuels support processes.
4.13. Identify fuels distribution processes.
4.14. Identify fuels storage processes.
4.15. Describe guidelines for collecting, segregating, and processing recoverable, recyclable and
waste petroleum.
4.16. Explain procedures for assuring the quality of fuel.
4.17. Describe guidelines and procedures for quality control of liquid and gaseous oxygen.
4.18. Explain the proper course of action in response to a fuel incident.
4.19. Identify selected fuels and cryogenics safety concerns related to materiel management.
4.20. Identify Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Quality Assurance (QA) with regard to fuels
    compliance and environmental.
4.21. State the process for fuels infrastructure readiness.

5. FUNDAMENTALS OF DISTRIBUTION
5.1. Identify distribution management policies and procedures.
5.2. Identify distribution management information systems.
5.3. Identify sources of transportation funding.
5.4. Describe the roles and responsibilities of base level traffic management activities.
5.5. Describe the roles and responsibilities of base level vehicle operations.
5.6. Identify transportation modes and responsible agencies.
5.7. Describe small air terminal operations roles and responsibilities.
5.8. Identify passenger movement policies and entitlements.
5.9. Identify passenger movement procedures.
5.10. Describe the traffic management passenger movement process.
5.11. Describe Vehicle Operations public law, policies and procedures.
5.12. Describe Vehicle Operations processes.
5.13. Describe cargo movement processes.
5.14. Describe personal property movement processes.
5.15. Identify LRS QA with regard to distribution compliance.

6. AERIAL PORT OPERATIONS
6.1. Describe the roles and responsibilities of base level aerial port activities.



                                                  60
6.2. Identify agencies associated with cargo movement.
6.3. Describe USAF cargo movement policies.
6.4. Describe USAF cargo movement processes.
6.5. Identify agencies associated with passenger movement.
6.6. Describe passenger movement policies.
6.7. Describe passenger movement processes.
6.8. Identify QA with regards to aerial port operations.

7. VEHICLE FLEET MANAGEMENT
7.1. Explain Vehicle Fleet Management public law, general policies and directives.
7.2. Identify Vehicle Fleet Management processes.
7.3. Identify Vehicle Fleet Management workcenters.
7.4. Identify Vehicle Fleet Management budgeting fundamentals.
7.5. Identify Vehicle Fleet Management safety requirements.
7.6. Identify Vehicle Fleet Management environmental requirements.
7.7. Identify the Vehicle Fleet Management functions at various levels in the Air Force.
7.8. Identify Vehicle Fleet Management IT systems.
7.9. Identify Vehicle Fleet Management metrics.
7.10. Understand the Air Force Vehicle Energy Program.

8. CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
8.1. Identify contingency planning, execution and force management processes.
8.2. Explain the Crisis Action Management process.

9. PLANNING
9.1. Identify the principles associated with the planning process.
9.2. Explain the purpose of documents associated with the planning process.
9.3. Explain the processes associated with base level deployment planning.

10. EXECUTION
10.1. Interpret execution documents.
10.2. Explain the processes associated with base level deployment execution.
10.3. Explain the operational steps to prepare units for deployment.
10.4. Build a concept brief and LOGMOD schedule.
10.5. Identify the principles of Joint Reception, Staging, Onward Movement, and Integration
(RSO&I).
10.6. Identify the operational steps to prepare units for re-deployment.

11. COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
11.1. Identify Joint and Air Force command and control systems relating to contingency operations.

12. WAR READINESS MATERIEL (WRM) MANAGEMENT
12.1. Identify the purpose of WRM Program.
12.2. Identify WRM Management roles and responsibilities.




                                               61
13. AGREEMENTS
13.1. Identify the purpose of agreements.
13.2. Identify agreements roles and responsibilities.
13.3. Identify types of agreements.

14. CAPSTONE
14.1. Participate in a Capstone exercise covering garrison and expeditionary operations




                                                62
                                SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Course Training Standard (CTS) was revised as a result of a June 2011 Utilization &
Training Workshop. Of note, life cycle logistics and finance objectives were added.




                                              63
