DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 2A6X3
Headquarters US Air Force                                                       Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                       1 April 2014



                              AFSC 2A6X3

         AIRCREW EGRESS SYSTEMS




          CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
            AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                                                                                        CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014

                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                              AIRCREW EGRESS SYSTEMS SPECIALTY
                                          AFSC 2A6X3

                                                            Table of Contents
PART I                                                                                                                                     Page #

Preface..............................................................................................................................................1
Abbreviations/Terms Explained ......................................................................................................2

Section A--General Information ......................................................................................................6
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Progression and Information ..............................................................................7
Specialty Description
Skill/Career Progression
       Apprentice (3) Level
       Journeyman (5) Level
       Craftsman (7) Level
       Superintendent (9) Level
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force
Career Field Path
Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements..............................................................................14
Purpose
Specialty Requirements
       Apprentice Level Training
       Journeyman Level Training
       Craftsman Level Training
       Superintendent Level Training
Section D--Resource Contraints ....................................................................................................17
Section E--Transitional Training Guide.........................................................................................17


PART II
Section A--Course Objectives........................................................................................................18
Section B--Support Material ..........................................................................................................19
Section C--Training Course Index .................................................................................................19
Section D--MAJCOM Unique Requirements ................................................................................21
Section E--Specialty Training Standard (STS) .............................................................................21
Supersedes: CFETP 2A6X3, 1 October 2010
OPR: 361 TRS/TRR
Certified By: HQ USAF/A4LF (CMSgt Bryan Cannon)
Number of printed pages: 117

                                                                          i
                                                                       CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


                     AIRCREW EGRESS SYSTEMS SPECIALTY
                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                 AFSC 2A6X3

PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for 2A6X3, Aircrew Egress Systems Specialty.
The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instills rigor in all aspects
of career field training. This CFETP supersedes 2A6X3 CFETP, 1 October 2010. To read,
review, or print a copy of the current CFETP, go to the Air Force Publications website at:
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage, and
control training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints to accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower,
equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt
through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors will use to determine if airmen have satisfied training requirements.
Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training Package (QTP),
which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training course
index that supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to support training.
Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique
training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the
associated qualification needs. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training; Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task and correspondence course
requirements. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and
conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.


                                                  1
                                                                        CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The Air Force focal point for the designated career field
within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field, addressing issues
and coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the career field policy and
guidance.

Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions with the same title and code that require common
qualifications.

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in their
Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the
career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications.
The tasks of AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Continuation Training. This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements
and has an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Certifying Official. A person whom the commander assigns to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training that exceeds requirements with emphasis on present or
future duty assignments.

Contract Training. Type 1 training that receives the same priority funding as Air Force
directed training. It supports initial groups of instructors, operators, etc., that the Air Force
requires for new or modified weapon systems.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty. Only a percentage of critical tasks for
each system are listed as mandatory core tasks. This gives units needed flexibility to manage
their workforce training.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge
requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-/7-level in this career field.
Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-
2201, Air Force Training Program.



                                                   2
                                                                          CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


Course Training Standard (CTS). Training standard that identifies the training members will receive in a
specific course not covered in the CFETP.

Duty Position Tasks. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These include
as a minimum all core tasks that correspond to the duty position, and tasks assigned by the supervisor.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Functional Manager (FM). Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate functional authority (FA),
which provide day-to-day management responsibility over specific functional communities at the
MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, or ARC level. While they should maintain an institutional focus in regards to
resource development and distribution, FMs are responsible for ensuring their specialties are equipped,
developed, and sustained to meet the functional community’s mission as well as encourage force
development opportunities in order to meet future needs of the total Air Force mission.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a training
detachment (TD)

Go. “Go” means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local demands
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures. The stage at which a trainee has gained
enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform the tasks without supervision. Meeting the task
standard. (“Go” level equates to 3c in the STS proficiency code key).

Initial Skills Training (IST). A formal school course that result in the award of a 3-skill level
Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC).

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS (as a minimum). Should include tasks
required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.

MAJCOM Mandatory Course Listing (MMCL). Identifies mandatory maintenance training
requirements for initial technical school graduates, retrainees, and personnel with no experience
on assigned mission design series (MDS) aircraft. It also ensures maintenance personnel receive
training commensurate to their current duty position.

Mobile Training Team (Type 7) (MTT). Technical training conducted at operational locations by a
mobile training team.




                                                    3
                                                                         CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


Master Task List (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center
and consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF IMTs 797.

Master Training Plan. Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center job
requirements by using a MTL and provides milestones for task, career development course completion,
and prioritizes deployment/UTC, home station training tasks, upgrade, and qualification tasks.

No Go. Trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform task without
supervision. Does not meet task standard.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). Occupational surveys provide information in terms of the
percentage of members performing jobs or tasks, the relative percentage of time spent
performing tasks, equipment used, task difficulty, training emphasis, testing importance, and the
skills necessary to perform tasks. The structure of jobs within an occupation serves as a guide
for refining the Air Force military classification system or personnel utilization policies for that
occupation.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training
required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional course designed for use at the unit to
qualify or aid qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may be
printed, computer based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment, that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training. The total training process used to qualify airmen in their assigned specialty.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the
overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career Development
Courses, and exportable courses.

Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks through OJT
methods. Also, equipment that the trainer uses to teach personnel specified tasks.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).




                                                    4
                                                                              CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


    Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and
    CDCs required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

    Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum made up of the Air Force Career Field
    Manager (AFCFM), AETC Training Pipeline Manager, MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code
    (AFSC) Functional Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC personnel who
    determine career path training requirements. As a minimum, the U&TW will lead to better training
    quality through a review and evaluation of training methods, while using current OSR data to determine
    AFS training requirements. The U&TW is used as a forum to determine education and training
    requirements, by bringing together the expertise to establish the most effective mix of formal and OJT
    for each AFS skill level. Also, use the forum to create or revise training standards, and set
    responsibilities for providing training. As a quality control tool, the U&TW is used to ensure the validity
    and viability of the AFS training. Additionally, the U&TW is used to determine AFS merger training
    requirements and formal course constraints.
    Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). A United States Air Force program that
    determines who will be promoted to the ranks of Staff Sergeant (E-5) through Master Sergeant
    (E-7) and provides feedback score sheets to enlisted members considered for promotion. These
    score sheets help the individual determine professional development needs.

    Web Site Links

AFCDA                 http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/main.htm
CCAF                  https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                      af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC13447C0FB5E044080020E329A
                      9
ETCA                  https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
HQ USAF/A4LF          https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-LG-AF-35/default.aspx
361 TRS               https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                      af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=-1399789
367 TRS/TRSS          https://367trss.hill.af.mil/
372 TRS               https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                      af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=-1468777
982 MXS/TST           https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
(ITU)                 af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=-1468774




                                                        5
                                                                       CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


Section A - General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers,
supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training
program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A6X3 should receive in order
to develop and progress throughout their career. This CFETP identifies initial skill, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific
training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty
for award of the 3-skill level. This training is conducted by AETC at Sheppard AFB, TX.
Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7- and, 9-skill levels.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the
job. Advanced training is formal specialty training that provides individuals who are qualified in
one or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to
enhance their expertise in the career field. Supplemental training is either in-residence or
exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training. Proficiency training is additional
training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training,
provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for
upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies tasks and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses that are available in the specialty and identifies sources of training,
and the training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints which impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, Training
Detachment (TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining the resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable



                                                  6
                                                                     CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


courses can satisfy these identified requirements. MAJCOM developed training, to support this
AFS, must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available training
resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The AETC training
manager for AFSC 2A6X3 will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC and MFM
to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and AETC training
personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of
courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Maintains aircraft egress systems with ejection seats, canopies,
hatches, explosive components, electro-explosive devices (EED), subsystems, and related
support equipment (SE). Related DOD Occupational Subgroup: 160200.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1. Advises on and solves installation, maintenance, and repair problems by studying
schematic and technical publications. Diagnoses malfunctions and recommends corrective
action. Implements maintenance and safety policies for egress systems and integral egress
system components to include personnel parachute assemblies and survival kits.

4.2.2. Performs scheduled and unscheduled maintenance on egress systems. Removes, installs,
and modifies egress systems. Ensures egress explosive cartridge actuated devices (CAD),
pressure actuated devices (PAD), and EEDS are safe and disarmed prior to performing
maintenance. Performs operational and functional tests of egress systems, subsystems, and
components using test equipment and test kits. Applies corrosion control procedures to escape
systems and related components. Operates and maintains related SE. Uses maintenance
information systems (MIS) to monitor maintenance trends, analyze equipment requirements,
maintains equipment records, documents maintenance actions, and time change database.

4.2.3. Performs integrity inspections of the escape system. Inspects egress systems, subsystems,
and components for safety, security, and serviceability. Inspects and determines serviceability of
CAD, PAD and EED devices based on shelf and service life limits. Handles, labels, and disposes
of hazardous waste and materials according to federal and local environmental standards.


4.2.4. Maintenance Superintendent. Manages maintenance and staff functions on aircraft
fuel, hydraulic, electrical, environmental, and aircrew egress systems. Interprets and evaluates
directives and publications, inspection findings, records, and reports and recommends corrective



                                                 7
                                                                     CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


actions. Determines operational status and evaluates operational effectiveness of aircraft and
associated systems. Inspects and evaluates maintenance activities and resolves problems.
Interprets and establishes safety and training guidelines. Plans, organizes, directs and controls
maintenance inspection, troubleshooting, and repair activities. Controls resources, and manages
funds. Manages handling, storing, and disposing of hazardous materials and waste according to
Federal, state, and local environmental standards

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop, manage,
and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure each individual receives necessary training at appropriate points in their career. The
following narrative and AFSC 2A6X3 career field table identify the skill/career progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3 level). Upon completion of basic aircrew egress system maintenance course,
a trainee will work with a trainer to enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the
Career Development Course (CDC), Task Qualification Training, and available exportable
courses for continued advancement. Once task certified, a trainee may perform the task
unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for appointment as unit trainers after completion of
a formal trainer course.

5.2. Journeyman (5 level). Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and skill in
troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. Five-levels may be assigned job positions
such as quality assurance and various staff positions. After having 48 months in the Air Force,
5-levels should attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) to enhance their Professional Military
Education (PME). Five-levels will be considered for appointment as unit trainers. Individuals
will use their CDCs to prepare for WAPS testing. They should also consider continuing their
education toward a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7 level). A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions such as shift leader, element NCOIC, and flight superintendent. Craftsmen should take
courses to obtain added knowledge on management of resources and personnel. Exportable
MDS specific courses and MAJCOM/unit directed courses are also available. Continued
academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged. In addition,
when promoted to TSgt, individuals will complete the Noncommissioned Officer Academy.
4.2.3. Performs integrity inspections of the escape system. Inspects egress systems, subsystems,
and components for safety, security, and serviceability. Inspects and determines serviceability of
CAD, PAD and EED based on shelf and service life limits. Handles, labels and disposes of
hazardous waste and materials according to Federal, state, and local environmental standards.

4.2.4. Aircrew Egress Systems Craftsman: Interprets publications, inspects, analyzes,
troubleshoots, performs maintenance, and provides expertise on Egress systems, and associated
equipment. Establishes priorities for completion of maintenance tasks and provides assistance in
solving maintenance, supply, and personnel problems. Evaluates requirements for quality




                                                 8
                                                                      CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


5.4. Superintendent (9 level). A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief,
production superintendent, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of
budget, manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing
education. Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are
also recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Aircrew Egress Systems career
field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training
requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop affordable training, eliminate duplication,
and prevent a fragmented approach to training. The following training decisions were based on a
career field utilization and training workshop at Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas 8 - 10 July
2013.

6.1. Initial Skills. Minor changes (additions/deletions) were made to line items affecting the 3-
level course. Changes included addition of use of Maintenance Resource Management,
CAD/PAD inspections, use Tool Accountability System, Aircraft Safe for Maintenance, remove,
inspect and install emergency oxygen bottle of the ACESII seat, A-10 egress and canopy theory
of system operation, as well as B-52 egress theory of system operation and ejection seat theory
of operation. Deletions included Use of automated AFTO Form 781, prepare material deficiency
reports, process/control DIFM material, use/inspect/maintain aircraft seat maintenance stand,
perform SBSS inquiries, order components w/SBSS, use escape system schematics, inspect
vernier rocket motor on the ACES II seat, rotate ejection seat, and remove and install canopy,
actuator and follow-on maintenance of the F-16 seat and F-22 egress theory of system operation.
The course would remain at 31 days.

6.2 Five-Level Upgrade Training. Updates were made to the 5-level CDC that will require
minor changes. Numerous training codes were noted and included in the STS, but few will
affect the current text of the CDC. Presently the 5-level CDCs consist of 4 volumes.

6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training. Minor changes (additions/deletions) were made to line
items affecting core tasks

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF is one of several federally chartered
degree-granting institutions; however, it is the only 2-year institution exclusively serving military
enlisted personnel. The college is regionally accredited through Air University by the
Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) to award
AAS degrees designed for specific Air Force occupational specialties and is the largest multi-
campus community college in the world. Upon completion of basic military training and
assignment to an AF career field, all enlisted personnel are registered in a CCAF degree program
and are afforded the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In order to be
awarded, degree requirements must be successfully completed before the student separates from
the Air Force, retires, or is commissioned as an officer. See the CCAF website for details
regarding the AAS degree programs at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.




                                                 9
                                                                                             CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


7.1. CCAF Degree Requirements. All enlisted airmen are automatically entered into the
CCAF program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the
following requirements must be met:

                                                                                                   Semester Hours

       Technical Education...................................................................................24
       Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ..........................................6
       Physical Education .......................................................................................4
       General Education ..................................................................................…15
       Program Elective ....................................................................................…15
                                                                                                     Total: 64


7.1.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the career field apprentice
course satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A minimum of 24
semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester
hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses. Some academic degree programs
have specific technical education requirements. Refer to the CCAF General Catalog for specific
degree requirements for your specialty.

7.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Enlisted
Professional Military Education (EPME) and/or civilian management courses.

7.1.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.1.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.

7.1.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Nine semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.1.6. Residency Requirement (16 Semester Hours): Satisfied by credit earned for coursework
completed in an affiliated school or through internship credit awarded for progression in an Air
Force occupation specialty. Enlisted members attending Army, Navy, and/or DOD initial or
advanced training do not receive resident credit since these schools are not part of the CCAF
system. However, the college awards proficiency credit to AF enlisted members completing
these courses. Note: Physical education credit awarded for basic military training is not resident
credit.

7.2. Professional Certifications. Certifications assist the professional development of our
Airmen by broadening their knowledge and skills. Additionally, specific certifications may be


                                                                10
                                                                       CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


award collegiate credit by CCAF and civilian colleges, saving time and Air Force tuition
assistance funds. It also helps airmen to be better prepared for transition to civilian life. To learn
more about professional certifications and certification programs offered by CCAF, visit
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. In addition to its associate degree program,
CCAF offers the following certification programs and resources:

7.2.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC
Program for qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated a
high level of professional accomplishment. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes
the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to
teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience.

7.2.2. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF
offers the ISD Certification Program for qualified curriculum developers and managers who are
formally assigned at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses.
The ISD Certification is a professional credential that recognizes the curriculum developer’s or
manager’s extensive training, education, qualifications and experience required to develop and
manage CCAF courses. The certification also recognizes the individual’s ISD qualifications and
experience in planning, developing, implementing and managing instructional systems.

 7.2.3. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC Program
for qualified Air Force NCO’s. The PMC is a professional credential awarded by CCAF that
formally recognizes an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and
management, as well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a structured
professional development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education
(EPME) and Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).

7.2.4. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented
CERT to increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air Force
occupational specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and provides
information related to specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian occupation
equivalencies (US Department of Labor); CCAF degree programs; national professional
certifications; certifying agencies; and professional organizations.

7.2.5. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airframe and Powerplant (A&P)
Certification.
Air Force aircraft maintenance technicians are eligible to pursue FAA A&P certification based
on training and experience in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulation Part 65. The DoD
established the Joint Service Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification Council
(JSAMTCC) to standardize the eligibility and certification process for the military and provide
direction and resources necessary to fill the gaps within military training and experience.
Completing the Air Force A&P Certification Program, managed by CCAF, will fill training and
experience gaps, ensuring FAA eligibility. The program consists of three Air University Online
A&P Specialized Courses, OJT and experience requirements contained in a Qualification
Training Package (QTP). Technicians may enroll in the program once they have been awarded
the 5-skill level. To learn more, visit CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.



                                                 11
                                                                  CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


CCAF awards 30 semester hours for FAA A&P certification and 18 semester hours for FAA
Airframe or Powerplant certification.

7.2.6. SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance
technicians are eligible to pursue SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification based on
aviation training and experience. SpaceTEC certification is endorsed by NASA and the
Aerospace industry. Air University Online offers a Specialized Course to assist technicians
prepare for the Aerospace Technician certification exams. To learn more, visit SpaceTEC at
http://www.spacetec.org/ or CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. CCAF
awards 25 semester hours for the SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification.




                                               12
                                                                             CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014

  8. Career Field Path.

  8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A6X3 Air Force Specialty.

                                        Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                       Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                  Rank      Average         Earliest     High Year Of Tenure
                                                                Sew-On         Sew-On               (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)          Amn       6 months
                                                     A1C      16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                Amn       6 months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.             A1C      16 months
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for           SrA        3 years       28 months            8 Years
  retrainees.
- Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service
  or be a SSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                     Trainer                                                   Certifier
- Qualified and certified to perform the task to   - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and trained and qualified
  be trained.                                        to perform the task being certified.
- Must attend the Air Force Training Course.       - Must attend the Air Force Training Course.
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                     positions, units and/or work centers with specialized
                                                     training standardization and certification requirements.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
- Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for           SSgt      5.3 years        3 years            15 Years
  retrainees.
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
  mission design aircraft.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)
                                                     TSgt      8.9 years        5 years            20 Years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
                                                     MSgt     14.6 years        8 years            24 Years
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
-Minimum rank of SMSgt
                                                    SMSgt     20.9 years     11 years           26 Years
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for

Chief Enlisted Manager                              CMSgt     23.9 years     14 years           30 Years




                                                       13
                                                                    CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the 2A6X3 career field are defined in terms of
tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award, and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and E of this CFETP
.
10. Specialty Qualification Requirements :

10.1. Apprentice Level Training:

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: mechanical, pneumatic, and electrical
principles applying to aircrew egress systems; concepts and application of applicable
maintenance directives; and using and interpreting schematic drawings, and technical
publications.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
general science or mathematics is desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A633, completion of the Aircrew Egress Systems
Apprentice Course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. None.

10.1.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123,
Medical Examination and Standards, is mandatory. Individual must be capable of lifting 100
pounds.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The initial skills course will provide the required
knowledge and qualification.

10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training (BMT), completion of
course J3ABR2A633 048B, Aircrew Egress Systems Apprentice is mandatory. This course
satisfies the knowledge and training resource requirements for award of the 3-skill level.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is also located in the official specialty
description in AF Enlisted Classification Directory.
10.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of mechanical, pneumatic, and electrical
principles applying to aircrew egress systems; concepts and application of applicable



                                                14
                                                                    CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


maintenance directives; and using and interpreting schematic drawings, and technical
publications
10.2.1.2. Education. There are no formal education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.2.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A653, the 5-level CDC provides the career
knowledge training required. Training and OJT will provide training and qualification
on the core tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's
current knowledge base, and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT
requirements.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A633. Experience in
functions such as removing, inspecting, installing, repairing modifying aircrew egress systems
and components.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months on-the-job training (see
table 8.1) or 9 months if a retrainee, completion of the 2A653 CDC and 5-level core tasks
represent the resources needed for award of the 5-skill level.

10.2.3. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed by the units utilizing the STS,
exportable courses, and CDCs. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the basic 2A653
CDC, completion of all core tasks on one MDS aircraft, and 12 months upgrade training or 9
months if a retrainee.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training:

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is also located in the official specialty
description in AF Enlisted Classification Directory.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of mechanical, pneumatic, and electrical
principles applying to aircrew egress systems; concepts and application of applicable
maintenance directives; and using and interpreting schematic drawings, and technical
publications

10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the journeyman level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of mandatory CDC and 7-level core tasks are mandatory for
upgrade to 2A673.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A653. Also, experience
performing or supervising functions involved in maintaining, and inspecting egress systems and
subsystems.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of CDC 2AX7X, along with supervisor
certification of core tasks represent the resources required for award of the 7-skill level.



                                                15
                                                                      CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014



10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of all AF core tasks,
12 months OJT (see table 8.1) as a SSgt and completion of the 7-level CDCs

10.4. Superintendent Level Training:

10.4.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is also located in the official specialty
description in AF Enlisted Classification Directory.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of mechanical, pneumatic, and electrical
principles applying to aircrew egress systems; concepts and application of applicable
maintenance directives; and using and interpreting schematic drawings, and technical
publications

10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the craftsman level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A690, promotion to rank of SMSgt is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2A690, qualification in and possession of AFSC
2A673, 2A674, 2A675, or 2A676 is mandatory. Also, experience directing functions such as
installing, maintaining, repairing, overhauling, or modifying aircrew egress systems, aircraft fuel
systems, hydraulic systems, or electrical and environmental systems is mandatory.

10.4.1.5. Other. Not used.

10.4.2. Training Sources/Resources. Instruction received through the Senior NCO Academy
and duty position qualifications represent the required resources for upgrade to the 9-skill level.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after completing MAJCOM
requirements, unit OJT, and promotion to SMSgt.




                                                 16
                                                                    CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints which preclude
optimum and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as
cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section
are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource
constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training. E-tools for implementation of IETMS.

13. Five-Level Training. There are no 5-level constraints.

14. Seven-Level Training. There are no 7-level constraints.

Section E – Transitional Training Guide. There are no transition training requirements.




                                                17
                                                                    CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


PART II

Section A - Course Objective List

1. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each
task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard which states what is
expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes
place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The behavior is the observable portion of the objective
(i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the level of performance that is measured to
ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses letter codes(s) to identify
how it is measured. All objectives using the Progress Check (PC) code indicate a progress check
is used to measure subject or task knowledge. Progress checks are also used to measure student
accomplishment of performance objectives. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is
used to measure the subject or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W
indicates a subject or task knowledge progress check and a separate measurement of both
knowledge and performance elements using a written test.

2. Standard. The minimum standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for
performance objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual
progress check checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s
progress on each task. Instructor assistance may be provided as needed during the progress
check, and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory
performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written
test.

3. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section E of this
CFETP for an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the ‘2b’
proficiency level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but need assistance on
the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step
procedures for doing the task. The student can also identify why and when a task must be done
and why each step is needed.

4. Course Objectives. If you require detailed course descriptions and objectives, please provide
a written request to the AETC Training Manager, 361 TRS/TRR, 501 Missile Road, Sheppard
AFB, TX 76311-2264 or e-mail UDG_361TRS_TRAININGMANAGERS@us.af.mil.




                                                18
                                                                    CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


Section B - Support Material

5. The following list of support material is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas. Support materials are any training package designed to enhance the
learning process at any level of training. Refer to Education and Training Course
Announcements for information on AETC formal courses at https://etca.randolph.af.mil .

6. Contact information for the 372 TRS Training Detachment courses is 912 I Avenue, Suite 3,
Sheppard AFB, TX, 76311-2361, DSN 736-4788, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=-1468777.

7. Interactive Courseware information is available at: 367 TRS, 6058 Aspen, Bldg. 1295, Hill
AFB, Utah 84056-5805 https://367trss.hill.af.mil/

Section C - Training Course Index

8. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the Aircrew
Egress Systems Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career
field training programs. This index lists Air Force resident, AFCDA, and exportable courses
used to support training for this specialty. Refer to the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses listed below
https://etca.randolph.af.mil. For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR
at:

       361 TRS/TRR
       501 Missile Road
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2264
       DSN 736- 3684

https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=-
1399789

9. Air Force In-Resident Courses.

 COURSE NO.               COURSE TITLE                  LOCATION         USER
 J3ABR2A633 048B          Aircrew Egress Systems        Sheppard AFB, TX AF/ANG/AFRC
                          Apprentice,
 J3AZR1P071 0L1A          Life Sciences Equipment       Sheppard AFB, TX AF/ANG/AFRC
                          Investigation




                                               19
                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


10. Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA) Courses

COURSE NO.            COURSE TITLE                                         USER
CDC 2A653             Aircrew Egress Systems Journeyman                    AF/ANG/AFRC
CDC 2AX7X             Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                      AF/ANG/AFRC


       361 TRS/TRR
       501 Missile Road
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2264
       DSN 736-1402
       e-mail: 361TRSCDCWriters@us.af.mil

11. Exportable Courses.

For further information on the following exportable courses, contact the OPRs at:

   367 TRSS                                           362 TRS
   6058 Aspen Ave                                     613 10th Ave
   Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805                            Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
   DSN 777-2788/0893                                  DSN 736-5206

The Hill AFB course catalog can be ordered from DSN 777-2788/0893 or
https://367trss.hill.af.mil/.

12. Training Detachment (TD) Courses.

For further information on the TD courses, contact the OPRs at:
372 TRS
912 I Ave Suite 3
Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2361
DSN 736-4801
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=-
1468777

COURSE NUMBER           COURSE TITLE                             OPR         USER
J4AMP2A6X3 A00A         A-10A Aircraft Egress System             372 TRS     AF/ANG/AFRC
                        Organizational Maintenance
J4AMP2A6X3 A01A         B-1B Aircrew Egress System               372 TRS     AF/ANG/AFRC
                        (ACES/In-Shop)
J4AMP2A6X3 A02A         B-2 Aircrew Egress System                372 TRS     AF/ANG/AFRC
                        (Certification Training)
J4AMP2A6X3 A03A         B-52H Aircrew Egress System              372 TRS     AF/ANG/AFRC
                        Maintenance
J4AMP2A6X3 A25A         F-15 Tactical Aircrew Egress Systems     372 TRS     AF/ANG/AFRC
                        Maintenance (OM)


                                               20
                                                                    CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


 J4AMP2A6X3 A26A        F-16 Aircrew Egress Systems (O/M)        372 TRS      AF/ANG/AFRC
J4AMP2A6X3 A27A         F-22 Egress System Maintenance           372 TRS      AF/ANG/AFRC
                        (Conversion Training)
J4AMP2A6X3 A39A         T-38 Aircrew Egress System               372 TRS      AF/ANG/AFRC
                        (Single Motion)
J4AMP2A6X3 A41A         U-2 Aircrew Egress System                372 TRS      AF/ANG/AFRC
J4AMP2A6X3 A48A         Aircrew Egress System                    372 TRS      AF/ANG/AFRC
                        (A-10/F-15/F-16/, ACES II)
J4AMP2A6X3 B01A         B-1B Aircrew Egress Systems (OM)         372 TRS      AF/ANG/AFRC
J4AMP2A6X3 B26A         F-16 Egress System (OM)                  372 TRS      AF/ANG/AFRC
                        (Certification Training)

Section D - MAJCOM Unique Requirements. Combat Air Force Mandatory Course Listing
(CAF/MCL) applies to ACC, AETC, AFGSC, PACAF, and USAFE personnel/units. The
CAF/MCL does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) members and units. However, it does apply to active duty personnel assigned to Future
Total Force units. (Active Duty personnel assigned to Guard bases). MAJCOMs change
mandatory course requirements occasionally.

13. MAJCOM Courses. Contact the course OPRs at:

       HQ ACC LSG / OL-CA
       6058 Aspen
       Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
       DSN 777-4278

Section E - Specialty Training Standard

14. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education
and Training Command for the following classes: Course J3ABR2A633 048C will begin with
class 15 April 2014 with a graduation date of 5 June 2014.

15. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, and this STS:

15.1. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Airman
Advancement Division by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields.
The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team
members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study
references listed in the Enlisted Promotions References and Requirements Catalog (EPRRC).
Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program. WAPS is not
applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

15.2. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common
tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-,
5-, and 7-skill level.


                                               21
                                                                       CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014



15.3. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
Tasks identified by */R as core tasks are optional for ANG and AFRC when training capability is
not available, but must be accomplished when capability becomes available. MAJCOM
Functional Managers, commanders, and supervisors may designate additional critical tasks as
necessary. Third-party certification of core tasks is no longer an Air Force requirement for this
specialty. However, MAJCOMS, commanders, and workcenter supervisors still retain the option
to designate critical tasks requiring third-party certification. To designate a task as requiring
third-party certification, circle the appropriate asterisk in the core task column on the specialty
training standard (STS) portion the CFETP in the master task list (MTL) and individual training
records. If the task is not already designated as a core task, place just the circle at the appropriate
location in the core task column.

15.3.1. Core tasks which are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not
required for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training)

15.3.2. For units with more than one mission design series (MDS) (e.g. C-130 & F-16) aircraft,
upgrade trainees need only complete core tasks on a single MDS. MFMs, unit commanders,
and/or supervisors may require trainees to complete core task training on additional MDS
aircraft, if desired. If some of these core tasks involve training in another unit on base, trainees
must still complete all core tasks relevant to at least one MDS aircraft. Flightline-assigned
personnel must complete backshop core tasks and vice versa. All units are bound by the
requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate core task trainees from other units.

15.4. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use Maintenance Information Systems (MIS) to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or completed
date.

15.5. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course

15.6. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

15.7. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to
AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level.
"Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following
requirements apply:

15.7.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201. Use
of Part II and attachments 1 and 2 of this CFETP are mandatory. Use of attachment 3 is



                                                  22
                                                                    CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


mandatory for sections maintaining ACES II ejection seats. Use of at least one attachment from
four through twelve is mandatory. Identify duty position requirements by circling (in pencil) the
subparagraph number next to the task statement. As a minimum, complete the following
columns in Part II of the CFETP: date training completed, trainee initials, trainer initials, and
certifier initials for core tasks designated as requiring certification . There are no approved
AFJQSs for this AFSC.

15.7.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs
are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this CFETP STS (or
automated STS) is mandatory. Use this CFETP STS to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications until all line items are posted in the automated STS. Document and certify all
previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

15.8. STS. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF
Airman Advancement Division, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their
career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test
development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are
based upon study references listed in the EPRRC. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502,
Airman Promotion/Demotion Program. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or
Air Force Reserve.

16. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
the AETC training manager at 361 TRS/TRR, 501 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-
2264, DSN 736-3684. Reference specific STS paragraphs. A customer service information line
has been installed for the supervisor’s convenience to identify graduates who may have received
over or under training on task/knowledge items listed in this training standard. For a quick
response to problems, call our customer service information line, DSN 736-5236, any time, day
night or contact 82TRGCSIL@us.af.mil.



BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                             JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                     DCS/ Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support




                                               23
                                          CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014


14 Attachments

 1.   Proficiency Code Key
 2.   STS – General Egress
 3.   STS – ACES II ejection seats
 4.   STS – A-10 aircraft
 5.   STS – B-1B aircraft
 6.   STS – B-2 aircraft
 7.   STS – B-52 aircraft
 8.   STS – F-15 aircraft
 9.   STS – F-16 aircraft
10.   STS – F-22 aircraft
11.   STS – T-38 aircraft
12.   STS – U-2 aircraft
13.   STS – 2AX7X CDC
14.   STS – F-35 aircraft




                                     24
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014

                                             This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
                                                                   Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                      Initials (Written)              Last Four of SS#

                                                Printed Name of Certifying Official and Written Initials
N/I                                                                     N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I



                                                  QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                              Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale      Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                                               (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
            Task                       2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY
                                               PROFICIENT)
      Performance                      3        Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.
                                               (COMPETENT)
          Levels                       4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the
                                               task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                                       a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
         *Task                         b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
       Knowledge                       c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                               (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
          Levels                       d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
                                       A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
        **Subject                      B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
                                               (PRINCIPLES)
       Knowledge                       C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
         Levels                        D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                          25
                                                                                                                       CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014

                                                        2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                        Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided (See Note)
      1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                               3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                                Level
                                                     5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                         Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

ATTACHMENT 2

NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory for all 2A6X3 personnel.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: All tasks and knowledge identified as training requirements in column 4A will be taught during wartime.

NOTE 4: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 5: Attachment 2, 3, 8, 9, and 10 identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career Development
Courses.

      2.1          AIRCREW EGRESS
                   CAREER LADDER
                   PROGRESSION
                                                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -
                   TR: Air Force Enlisted
                   Classification Directory
                   (AFECD)
      2.2          SPECIFIC OPERATIONS
                   SECURITY (OPSEC)
                   VULNERABILITIES OF                                                                                            -         -        -       -        -
                   AFSC 2A6X3
                   TR: AFPD 10-7; AFI 10-701
      2.3          AIR FORCE
                   OCCUPATIONAL
                   SAFETY AND HEALTH
                   (AFOSH) PROGRAM:
                   TR: AFMAN 91-201; AFIs
                   91-202, 91-204 and 91-205
      2.3.1        Hazards of AFSC 2A6X3
                                                                                                                                 A         -        B       -        -

      2.3.2        AFOSH standards for AFSC
                   2A6X3                                                                                                         A         -        B       -        -

      2.3.3        Apply job safety procedures
                                                       *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

      2.3.4        Apply fire prevention
                   procedures.                         *                                                                         a         -        b       -        -
                   TR: AFI 32-2001
      2.3.5        US Air Force Hazard Report
                                                                                                                                 -         -        B       -        -

      2.3.6        Nuclear Safety
                   TR: AFI 91-204                                                                                                -         -        B       -        -




                                                                   26                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                                  GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.4         HAZARDOUS
            MATERIALS AND WASTE
            HANDLING ACCORDING
            TO ENVIRONMENTAL
            STANDARDS
            TR: Applicable Command
            Directives/OSHA Standards
            AFOSH Standards/Local
            Standards
2.4.1       Types of hazardous
            materials/fluids                                                                                               -         -        -       -        -

2.4.2       Handling procedures
                                                                                                                           -         -        B       -        -

2.4.3       Storage and labeling
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.4.4       Proper disposal
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.5         TECHNICAL
            PUBLICATIONS
            (GENERAL)
2.5.1       Fundamentals of the TO
            system                                                                                                         A         -        B       -        -
            TR: TOs 00-5-1, and 00-5-18
2.5.2       Index type technical orders
            TR: TOs 0- and 00 series                                                                                       -         -        B       -        -

2.5.3       TO Management
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.5.4       TCTO Process
                                                                                                                           -         -        B       -        -

2.5.5       Maintenance Assistance
            TR: TO 00-25-107                                                                                               -         -        B       -        -

2.5.6       Use AFI 21-101, Aircraft
            Egress and Escape Systems                    *                                                                 b         -        -       -        -

2.5.7       Technical order
            improvement reports                                                                                            A         -        B       -        -
            TR: TO 00-5-1
2.5.8       Use technical manuals for

2.5.8.1     Maintenance
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

2.5.8.2     Inspections
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

2.5.8.3     Troubleshooting
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -



                                                             27                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.5.8.4     Ordering parts
                                                 *                                                                        1a         -        -       -        -

2.5.9       Use Methods and Procedures
            technical orders
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -
            TR: TOs 00-5, 00-20, 00-80
            series
2.5.10      Use Standard Publications
            TR: Indexes; 21-, 36-, and
                                                                                                                           a         -        -       -        -
            91series; applicable OSHA
            and AFOSH Standards
2.5.11      Use Digital Technical Orders
            TR: AFI 21-301                                                                                               2b/x        -        -       -        -

2.6         SUPERVISION
            (GENERAL)
            TR: AFECD; AFIs 36-2101,
            36-2406, 36-2618, 36-2803,
            36-2805, 36-2907, 36-3017,
            38-101, 38-201,
            MPFM 07-44, and applicable
            command directives and
            OSHA and AFOSH Stds
2.6.1       Orient new personnel
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.6.2       Plan work assignments
            TR: AFI 21-101;                                                                                                -         -        -       -        -
            AFPAM 36-2241
2.6.3       Schedule
            TR: AFI 21-101;
            AFPAM 36-2241
2.6.3.1     Work assignments
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.6.3.2     Other activities such as
            ancillary training, staff                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -
            meetings and leave time
2.6.4       Assign
            TR: AFI 21-101;
            AFPAM 36-2241
2.6.4.1     Maintenance tasks
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.6.4.2     Personnel to duty positions
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.6.5       Supervise personnel
            accomplishing maintenance
            tasks                                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -
            TR: AFIs 21-101;
            AFPAM 36-2241
2.6.6       Analyze maintenance reports
            TR: AFIs 21-101,                                                                                               -         -        -       -        -
            TO 00-20-1

                                                             28                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.6.7       Use IMDS screens for
            Supervisory Functions (100,
            257, 380, 469, 263, 690, 810,                *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -
            701 applicable personnel and
            training screens)
2.6.8       Prepare and Write

2.6.8.1     Maintenance reports
            TR: AFH 33-337; AFIs 21-                                                                                       -         -        -       -        -
            101, AFECD; TO 00-20-1
2.6.8.2     Visual aids, such as
            organization, functional, and
            training charts.                                                                                               -         -        -       -        -
            TR: AFPAM 36-2241;
            AFI 21-101; AFECD
2.6.9       Establish work methods
            TR: AFPAM 36-2241;                                                                                             -         -        -       -        -
            AFI 21-101,
2.6.10      Evaluate work performance
            of subordinates
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -
            TR: AFI 36-2406.
            MPFM 07-44
2.6.12      Recommend policy changes
            on the utilization of
            resources:
            TR: AFIs 21-101, 38-101,
            38-201, 38-203
2.6.12.1    Personnel
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.6.12.2    Equipment
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.6.13      Resolve technical problems
            encountered by subordinates                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -
            TR: AFPAM 36-2241
2.7         TRAINING (General)
            TR: AFECD AFIs 21-101,
            36-2201; AFMANs 36-2236;
            AFCAT 36-2223
2.7.1       Occupational Analysis
            Report (OAR)                                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

2.7.2       Utilization and Training
            Workshop (U&TW)                                                                                                -         -        -       -        -

2.7.3       Career Field Education and
            Training Plan (CFETP)                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

2.7.4       Evaluate personnel to
            determine need for training                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -

2.8         Plan and Supervise OJT


                                                             29                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.8.1       Prepare job qualification
            standards                                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -

2.8.2       Conduct training
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.9         Maintain training records
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.10        Evaluate training
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.11        Recommend personnel for
            training
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -
            TR: AFIs 36-2101, 36-2201,
            36-2301; AFECD
2.12        OJT trainer requirements

2.12.1      Prepare teaching outlines or
            task breakdowns                                                                                                -         -        -       -        -

2.12.2      Provide trainees theory and
            training on actual equipment                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

2.12.3      Provide feedback on training
            provided                                                                                                       -         -        -       -        -

2.13        Establish explosive safety
            training program
                                                                                                                           -         -        b       -        -
            TR: AFMAN 91-201;
            AFI 91-202
2.14        MAINTENANCE
            MANAGEMENT
            (GENERAL)
            TR: AFI 21-101 and
            applicable command
            directives
2.14.1      Responsibilities of the
            Maintenance & Operations
                                                                                                                           -         -        B       -        -
            Groups
            TR: AFI 21-101
2.14.2      Logistics Maintenance
            Management                                                                                                     -         -        A       -        -

2.14.3      Maintenance Resource
            Management                                                                                                     A         -        -       -        -

2.14.4      Egress Maintenance
            Accountability                                                                                                 A         -        B       -        -

2.14.5      Egress Configuration
            Management                                                                                                     -         -        A       -        -

2.14.6      Basic functions within the
            maintenance complex                                                                                            -         -        B       -        -
            TR: AFI 21-101


                                                             30                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.14.7      Resource Management
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.14.8      Aircraft Monitoring
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.14.9      Management Internal
            Control Toolset (MICT)                                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

2.14.10     Foreign Object Damage
            (FOD) Monitor                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

2.14.11     Air Force Risk Management
            (AFRM)                                                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

2.15        MAINTENANCE LEVELS
            TR: AFI 21-101                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

2.16        MAINTENANCE
            INSPECTION SYSTEMS
            (GENERAL)
            TR: TO 00-35D-54, 00-20
            series and applicable
            command directives
2.16.1      Scheduled Inspections
                                                                                                                           A         -        B       -        -

2.16.2      In-Process Inspection (IPI)
                                                                                                                           A         -        B       -        -

2.16.3      One-Time Inspection (OTI)
                                                                                                                           -         -        B       -        -

2.16.4      Special Inspections
                                                                                                                           A         -        B       -        -

2.16.5      CAD/PAD Inspections
                                                                                                                           A         -        B       -        -

2.17        MAINTENANCE DATA
            COLLECTION (MDC)
            SYSTEM (GENERAL)
2.17.1      Purpose of MDC System
            TR: TO 00-20- series                                                                                           A         -        B       -        -

2.17.2      Purpose of AFTO Forms 781
            A/H/K                                                                                                          -         -        B       -        -

2.17.3      Use AFTO Forms 781
            A/H/K                                *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

2.17.4      Time Change Management
                                                                                                                           -         -        A       -        -

2.17.5      Time Change Verification
            Audit                                                                                                          -         -        B       -        -
            TR: AFI 21-101
2.17.6      Use AFTO Form 244
                                                                                                                          1a         -        -       -        -

                                                             31                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.17.7      Historical Records
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.18        INTEGRATED
            MAINTENANCE DATA
            SYSTEM (IMDS)
            (GENERAL)
            TR: AFCSM 21- series
2.18.1      Log in
                                                                                                                         2b/b

2.18.2      Log out
                                                                                                                         2b/b

2.18.3      Review work center event
            listing (380)                        *                                                                       2b/b        -        b       -        -

2.18.4      Clear work center event
                                                 *                                                                       2b/b        -        b       -        -

2.18.5      Create work center event
                                                 *                                                                       2b/b        -        -       -        -

2.18.6      Defer work center event
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.18.7      Schedule work center event
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.18.8      Review work center event
                                                                                                                                     -        -       -        -

2.18.9      Review Daily Transaction
            List                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.18.10     Use Integrated Maintenance
            Information System (IMIS)
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -
            (F-22)
            TR: TO 00-20-1
2.18.11     Establish Job Flow Packages
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.18.12     Use automated
            AFTO Form 781                                                                                                  -         -        b       -        -

2.18.13   Prepare material deficiency
          reports.
                                                                                                                           -         -        b       -        -
          TR: TO 00-35D-54;
          AFCSM 21 Series
2.18.14 Use IMDS for time change
          management
          TR: AFSCM 21 series
2.18.14.1 Complete work center event
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        b       -        -

2.18.14.2 Review data entries
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        b       -        -



                                                             32                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.18.14.3 Job standard
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.19        USE STANDARD BASE
            SUPPLY SYSTEM (SBSS)
            (GENERAL)
2.19.1      Perform inquiries
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        b       -        -

2.19.2      Order components
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        b       -        -

2.20        SUPPLY SYSTEM
            (GENERAL)
            TR: DOD 7200-10, AFMAN
            23-110v2, AFMAN 23-220,
            and applicable command
            directives
2.20.1      Use Supply Process
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.20.2      Maintenance Supply Concept
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.20.3      Supply Documents
            Management                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

2.20.4      Equipment Account
            Management                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

2.20.5      Depot Level Reparable
            (DLR)                                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

2.20.6      Repair Cycle Assets
                                                                                                                           -         -        b       -        -

2.20.7      Priority System
                                                                                                                           -         -        b       -        -

2.20.8      Bench Stock
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.20.9      Classified Asset Handling
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.20.10     Use condition tags
            TR: AFI 23-106; AFMAN                                                                                          a         -        b       -        -
            23-101; TO 00-20-3
2.20.11     AF Form 2005
            TR: AFI 23-106; AFMAN                                                                                          -         -        b       -        -
            23-101; TO 00-20-3
2.20.12     Use AFTO Form 350
            TR: AFI 23- 106; AFMAN               *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -
            23-101; TO 00-20-3
2.20.13     Use Equipment authorization
            lists                                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -
            TR: AFMAN 23-101


                                                             33                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.20.14     Prepare Report of Survey
            TR: AFMAN 23-220                                                                                               -         -        -       -        -

2.20.15     Process/Control
            DIFM material                                                                                                  -         -        b       -        -

2.21        TOOLS (GENERAL)
            TR: AFI 21-101 Applicable
            OSHA and AFOSH
            Standards, TO 32 series, TOs
            applicable to assigned
            equipment Applicable
            MAJCOM and Unit
            publications
2.21.1      Use hand tools
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

2.21.2      Use special tools
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

2.21.3      Use multimeters
                                                                                                                          2b         -        b       -        -

2.21.4      Use Composite Tool Kit
            (CTK)                                *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

2.21.5      Use automated tool
            accountability system                                                                                         1a         -        -       -        -

2.22        Use test equipment
            TR: Applicable OSHA and
            AFOSH Standards; TOs 13-
                                                                                                                           -         -        b       -        -
            and 32- series, TOs
            applicable to assigned
            equipment
2.23        AIRCRAFT (GENERAL)

2.23.1      Maintenance Incident
            Prevention and Investigation                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -
            TR: AFI 91-204
2.23.2      Use hardware
            TR: TOs 1-1A-8, 1-1A-14,             *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -
            and 42E-1-1
2.23.3      Apply corrosion control
                                                                                                                           a         -        b       -        -

2.23.4      Apply FOD control
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

2.23.5      Aircraft Safe for
            Maintenance                                                                                                    A         -        -       -        -

2.24        SHOP EQUIPMENT
            (GENERAL)
            TR: TO 35 series Applicable
            OSHA and AFOSH
            Standards;
                                                             34                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.24.1      Seat Sling

2.24.1.1    Use
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

2.24.1.2    Inspect
                                                                                                                          2b         -        b       -        -

2.24.1.3    Maintain
                                                                                                                           b         -        -       -        -

2.24.2      Hatch Sling

2.24.2.1    Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.2.2    Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.2.3    Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.3      Aircraft Seat Maintenance
            Stand
2.24.3.1    Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.3.2    Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.3.3    Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.4      Hatch Support Maintenance
            /Transport Fixture
2.24.4.1    Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.4.2    Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.4.3    Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.5      Crane (Generic)
            TR: TOs 35D, 36C, and
            36M Series
2.24.5.1    Purpose
                                                                                                                           -         -        A       -        -

2.24.5.2    Use
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

2.24.5.3    Inspect
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -



                                                             35                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.24.6      Maintenance stands
            TR: TO 35A4 Series
2.24.6.1    Use
                                                                                                                          1a         -        b       -        -

2.24.6.2    Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.7      Power units
            TR: TO 35C2 Series
2.24.7.1    Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        a       -        -

2.24.7.2    Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.8      Light carts
            TR: TO 35F5 Series
2.24.8.1    Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        a       -        -

2.24.8.2    Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.9      Nitrogen cart
            TR: TO 35D29 Series
2.24.9.1    Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.9.2    Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.10   Next Generation Heater
          (NGH) Ground Shelter
          Heater TR: TO 35E7 Series
2.24.10.1 Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.24.10.2 Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

2.25        ASSOCIATED EGRESS
            SYSTEMS (GENERAL)
            TR: Applicable OSHA and
            AFOSH Standards;
            TO 42E1-1-1; applicable
            technical manuals
2.25.1      Electrical principles
                                                                                                                           -         -        B       -        -

2.25.2      Use Escape System
            Schematic                                                                                                      -         -        b       -        -

2.25.3      Inspect ballistic systems
            hoses                                *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -


                                                             36                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                 CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)       (2)    (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course    CDC    Course   CDC

2.26        EGRESS EXPLOSIVES
            (GENERAL)
            TR: TOs 11A-1-47, 11P-,
            13A-, 16W2-, and 95-series;
            applicable technical manuals
2.26.1      Explosive Components
                                                                                                                           A         -        -       -        -

2.26.2      Explosive Safety Principles
                                                                                                                           A         -        B       -        -

2.26.3      Apply Explosive Safety
            Standards                            *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

2.26.4      Transportation of Explosive
            Components                                                                                                     A         -        B       -        -

2.26.5      Transport Explosive
            Components                           *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

2.26.6      Prepare/Maintain Explosive
            Storage Facility License                                                                                       -         -        b       -        -

2.26.7      Store explosives
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

2.27`       EGRESS COMPONENT
            SHELF/SERVICE LIFE
            (GENERAL)
2.27.1      Determine
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

2.27.2      Record
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

2.27.3      Monitor
                                                         *                                                                 a         -        b       -        -




                                                             37                                                                                  Attachment 2
                                                                                                                                            GENERAL EGRESS
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
ATTACHMENT 3

NOTE 1: This STS is mandatory for all 2A6X3 personnel.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision

NOTE 3: All tasks and knowledge identified as training requirements in column 4A will be taught during wartime.

NOTE 4: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 5: Attachment 2, 3, 8, 9, and 10 identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career
Development Courses

3.1           EJECTION SEATS
              TR: AFMAN 91-201,
              Applicable Technical
              Manuals
3.1.1         Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           B         -        B       -        -

3.1.2         Operational/
              Functional check                                                                                             A         -        -       -        -

3.2           SERVICE
              COMPONENTS                                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

3.2.1         Lubricate
                                                                                                                           a         -        a       -        -

3.2.2         Clean
                                                                                                                           a         -        a       -        -

3.2.3         Troubleshooting
                                                                                                                           -         -        b       -        -

3.3           ACES II COMPONENTS

3.3.1         Remove Drogue Parachute
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2         Remove and Install ACES
              II Components
3.3.2.1       Recovery Parachute
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.2       Emergency Oxygen Bottle
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.3       Pitch Stabilization Control
              Assembly (STAPAC)                  *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.4       Ejection Initiators
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.5       Mortar Disconnect
              Assembly                                                                                                    2b         -        -       -        -



                                                                  38                                                                       Attachment 3
                                                                                                                               ACES II EJECTION SEATS
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
3.3.2.6       Drogue Severance Cutters
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.7       Drogue Gun
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.8       Inertia Reel
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.9       Inertia Reel Straps
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.10      Restraint Release Thruster
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.11      Sequence Start Switch
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.12      Survival Kit
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.13      Emergency Power Supply
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.14      Recovery Sequencer
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.15      Environmental Sensor
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.16      Restraint Release bell
              crank                                                                                                        -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.17      Trajectory Divergence
              Rocket                                                                                                      2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.18      Gyro Spin-Up Cartridge
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.19      Vernier Rocket Motor
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.20      Inertia Reel Initiator
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.21      Backrest Pad
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.22      Seat Pad
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.23      Mortar Cartridge
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.24      Drogue Gun Cartridge
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.25      Restraint Release Thruster
              Cartridge                                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -



                                                                  39                                                                       Attachment 3
                                                                                                                               ACES II EJECTION SEATS
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
3.3.2.26      Headrest Pad
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.27      Lap Belt
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.28      Seat Pan Lid
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.29      Seat Roller
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.30      Inertia Reel Control
              Assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.31      Sensor Hoses
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.32      Ground Service Cable
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.33      Ejection Control Firing
              Mechanism/Handle                                                                                             -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.34      Ballistic Plumbing
              Hoses/Tubes                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.35      Ejection Control Safety
              Lever Switch and Harness                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.36      Detonation Transfer
              Assemblies (DTA's)(B-2)                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.37      Arm Restraint System
              (B-1B/F-22)                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.38      Leg Restraint System
              (B-1B/F-22)                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.39      Arm Rest (B-1B/B-2)
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.40      Velocity Sensor (B-1B)
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.41      Yaw Divergence Rocket
              (B-1B)                                                                                                       -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.42      Drogue Chute (Fast Acting
              Stabilization Drogue                                                                                         -         -        -       -        -
              (FAST F-22)
3.3.2.43      Drogue Mortar Cartridge
              (FAST F-22)                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

3.3.2.44      Initiation Thermal
              Batteries Electro-
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -
              Explosive Device (EED)
              (F-22)



                                                                  40                                                                       Attachment 3
                                                                                                                               ACES II EJECTION SEATS
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
3.3.2.45      Inertia Reel Electro-
              Explosive Device (EED)                                                                                       -         -        -       -        -
              (F-22)
3.3.3         Inspect ACES II
              Components
3.3.3.1       Recovery Parachute
                                                         *                                                                2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.2       Emergency Oxygen Bottle
                                                         *                                                                2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.3       STAPAC
                                                         *                                                                2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.4       Ejection Initiators
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.5       Mortar Disconnect
              Assembly                                                                                                    2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.6       Drogue Severance Cutters
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.7       Drogue Gun
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.8       Inertia Reel
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.9       Inertia Reel Straps
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.10      Restraint Release Thruster
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.11      Sequence Start Switch
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.12      Survival Kit
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.13      Emergency Power Supply
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.14      Recovery Sequencer
                                                         *                                                                2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.15      Environmental Sensor
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.16      Restraint Release bell
              crank                                                                                                        -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.17      Trajectory Divergence
              Rocket                                                                                                      2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.18      Gyro Spin-Up Cartridge
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -



                                                                  41                                                                       Attachment 3
                                                                                                                               ACES II EJECTION SEATS
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
3.3.3.19      Vernier Rocket Motor
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.20      Inertia Reel Initiator
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.21      Backrest Pad
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.22      Seat Pad
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.23      Mortar Cartridge
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.24      Drogue Gun Cartridge
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.25      Restraint Release Thruster
              Cartridge                                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.26      Headrest Pad
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.27      Lap Belt
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.28      Seat Pan Lid
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.29      Seat Roller
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.30      Seat Side-Cap
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.31      Inertia Reel Control
              Assembly                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.32      Sensor Hoses
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.33      Ground Service Cable
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.34      Ejection Control Firing
              Mechanism/Handle                                                                                             -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.35      Ballistic Plumbing
              Hoses/Tubes                        *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.36      Ejection Control Safety
              Lever Switch and Harness                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.37      Detonation Transfer
              Assemblies (DTA) (B-2)                                                                                       -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.38      Arm Restraint System
              (B-1B/F-22)                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -



                                                                  42                                                                       Attachment 3
                                                                                                                               ACES II EJECTION SEATS
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
3.3.3.39      Leg Restraint System
              (B-1B/F-22)                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.40      Arm Rest (B-1B/B-2)
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.41      Velocity Sensor
              (B-1B)                                                                                                       -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.42      Yaw Divergence Rocket
              (B-1B)                                                                                                       -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.43      Drogue Chute
              (FAST F-22)                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.44      Drogue Mortar Cartridge
              (FAST F-22)                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

3.3.3.45      Initiation Thermal
              Batteries (Electro-                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -
              Explosive Device F-22)
3.3.3.46      Inertia Reel (Electro-
              Explosive Device F-22)                                                                                       -         -        -       -        -

3.3.4         Perform Seat Visual
              Inspection                                 *                                                                2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.5         Perform 36 Month Seat
              Inspection (A-10, F-15,
              F-16, F-22)
3.3.5.1       Perform Sequence Start
              Switch Functional Check            *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

3.3.5.2       Perform Emergency
              Manual Parachute
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -
              Deployment Handle
              Function Check
3.3.5.3       Perform Environmental
              Sensor Functional Check            *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

3.3.5.4       Perform Ejection Control
              Safety Lever Functional            *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -
              Check
3.3.5.5       Perform Firing Control
              Handle Check                       *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

3.3.5.6       Perform STAPAC
              Assembly Inspection                *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

3.3.5.7       Perform emergency
              oxygen in-line quick               *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -
              disconnect function check
3.3.5.8       Perform arm restraint
              functional check (F-22)            *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

3.3.5.9       Perform leg restraint
              functional check (F-22)            *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -


                                                                  43                                                                       Attachment 3
                                                                                                                               ACES II EJECTION SEATS
                                                                                                                        CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
3.3.6         Perform 60 Month Seat
              Inspection (B-1B/B-2) TR:
              TO 13A5-66-1 and
              13A5-68-2
3.3.6.1       Perform Sequence Start
              Switch Functional Check                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -

3.3.6.2       Perform Emergency
              Manual Parachute
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -
              Deployment Handle
              Function Check
3.3.6.3       Perform Environmental
              Sensor Functional Check                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -

3.3.6.4       Perform Ejection Control
              Safety Lever Functional                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -
              Check
3.3.6.5       Perform Firing Control
              Handle Check                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

3.3.6.6       Perform STAPAC
              Assembly Inspection                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

3.4           Perform 18-year Pitch
              Stabilization Control
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -
              Assembly (STAPAC)
              overhaul




                                                                  44                                                                       Attachment 3
                                                                                                                               ACES II EJECTION SEATS
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK




           45
                                                                                                                      CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                              2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                              Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical            A       B            A      B          C          D           E           A           B            C
References                                                                                                           3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                     Level
                                           5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                               Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC      Course    CDC
ATTACHMENT 4

NOTE 1: Personnel performing maintenance on Aircrew Egress Systems on the A-10 aircraft perform the tasks and knowledge
listed in this attachment.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 4: Attachments 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10 primarily identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the
Career Development Courses.

4.1          AIRCRAFT EGRESS
             SYSTEMS
             MAINTENANCE (A-10)
             TR: TOs 13A5-56-11,
             1A-10C-2-95JG
             1A-10C-2-4JG-1
             1A-10C-2-95TS-1
             1A-10C-2-95MS-1
             1A-10C-6WC-2
4.1.1        Theory of system
             operation                                                                                                 A         -        B        -         -

4.1.2        Perform Operational/
             Functional check.                                                                                         -         -        -        -         -

4.1.3        Aircraft Safe for
             Maintenance                     *                                                                         -         -        -        -         -

4.1.4        De-arm/Arm Egress
             System                          *                                                                         -         -        -        -         -

4.1.5        Raise/Lower Ejection Seat
                                             *                                                                         -         -        -        -         -

4.1.6        Disconnect/Connect
             Canopy Forward Drive            *                                                                         -         -        -        -         -
             Link
4.1.7        Perform Egress Phase
             Inspection                                                                                                -         -        -        -         -

4.1.8        Perform Egress Final
             Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -        -         -

4.2          SHOP EQUIPMENT
             TR: TO 35 series
             Applicable OSHA and
             AFOSH Standards
4.2.1        Canopy Hold Open
             Fixture TR: TOs
             1A-10C-2-95JG-1
             35-1-246WC-1
4.2.1.1      Use
                                                                                                                       -         -        -        -         -



                                                             46                                                                                     Attachment 4
                                                                                                                                                A-10 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                           2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                 Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         A       B            A      B          C          D           E           A           B            C
References                                                                                                        3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                  Level
                                        5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                            Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC      Course    CDC
4.2.1.2      Inspect
                                                                                                                    -         -        -        -         -

4.2.1.3      Maintain
                                                                                                                    -         -        -        -         -

4.3          REMOVE/INSTALL
             TR: TO 1A-10C-2-95JG-1
4.3.1        Ejection Seat
                                          *                                                                         -         -        -        -         -

4.3.2        Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                    -         -        -        -         -

4.4          INSPECT
             TR: TO 1A-10C-2-95JG-1
4.4.1        Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                    -         -        -        -         -

4.5          AIRCRAFT EXPLOSIVE
             COMPONENTS
4.5.1        Remove/Install TR:
             TOs 1A-10C-2-95JG-1
             1A-10C-2-95JG-2
4.5.1.1      Rocket Catapult
                                          *                                                                         -         -        -        -         -

4.5.1.2      Catapult Delay Initiator
             (M-26)                                                                                                 -         -        -        -         -

4.5.2        Inspect TR: TOs
             1A-10C-2-95JG-1
             1A-10C-2-95JG-2
             11P3-1-7
             1191-31-7
4.5.2.1      Rocket Catapult
                                          *                                                                         -         -        -        -         -

4.5.2.2      Catapult Delay Initiator
             (M-26)                                                                                                 -         -        -        -         -

4.6          CANOPY SYSTEMS
             (A-10) TR: TO
             1A-10C-2-95TS-1
4.6.1        Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                    A         -        B        -         -

4.6.2        Remove/Install Canopy
             Components TR: TO
             1A-10C-2-95JG-2
4.6.2.1      Canopy Remover (M-4)
                                                                                                                    -         -        -        -         -

4.6.2.2      Canopy Remover Booster
             Initiator (M-53)                                                                                       -         -        -        -         -


                                                          47                                                                                     Attachment 4
                                                                                                                                             A-10 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                           2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                           Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                 Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         A       B            A      B          C          D           E           A           B            C
References                                                                                                        3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                  Level
                                        5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)      (1)       (2)
                                                            Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC      Course    CDC
4.6.2.3      Internal Canopy Jettison
             Initiator (M-99)                                                                                       -         -        -        -         -

4.6.2.4      External Canopy Jettison
             Initiators (M-99)                                                                                      -         -        -        -         -

4.6.2.5      Bypass valve
                                                                                                                    -         -        -        -         -

4.6.2.6      Link shear actuators
                                                                                                                    -         -        -        -         -

4.7.3        Inspect Canopy
             Components TR: TOs
             1A-10C-2-95JG-2
             11P3-1-7/11P4-1-7
4.7.3.1      Canopy Remover (M-4)
                                                                                                                    -         -        -        -         -

4.7.3.2      Canopy Remover Booster
             Initiator (M-53)                                                                                       -         -        -        -         -

4.7.3.3      Internal Canopy Jettison
             Initiator (M-99)             *                                                                         -         -        -        -         -

4.7.3.4      External Canopy Jettison
             Initiators (M-99)            *                                                                         -         -        -        -         -

4.7.3.5      Bypass valve
                                                                                                                    -         -        -        -         -

4.7.3.6      Link shear actuators
                                                                                                                    -         -        -        -         -




                                                          48                                                                                     Attachment 4
                                                                                                                                             A-10 AIRCRAFT
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK




                 49
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)       (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC       Course   CDC
ATTACHMENT 5

NOTE 1: Personnel performing maintenance on Aircrew Egress Systems on the B-1B aircraft perform the tasks and knowledge listed
in this attachment.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 4: Attachments 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10 primarily identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career
Development Courses.

5.1              AIRCRAFT EGRESS
                 SYSTEMS
                 MAINTENANCE (B-1B)
                 TR: TOs 13A5-66-1,
                 1B-1B-2-95JG-00-1,
                 1B-1B-2-95JG-10-1,
                 1B-1B-2-95JG-20-1
5.1.1            Theory of system
                 operation                                                                                                 -         -        B         -        -

5.1.2            Aircraft Safe for
                 Maintenance                     *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

5.1.3            De-arm/Arm Egress
                 System                          *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

5.1.4            Ops Check Seat
                 Horizontal Actuator                                                                                       -         -        -         -        -

5.1.5            Ops Check Seat Vertical
                 Actuator                                                                                                  -         -        -         -        -

5.1.6            Perform 100 Hour Retract
                 Thruster Inspection             *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

5.1.7            Perform Egress Final
                 Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

5.1.8            Perform Cabin
                 Decompression Sensor
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -
                 Static Line Drain Bottle
                 Inspection
5.2              REMOVE AND
                 INSTALL EGRESS
                 COMPONENTS (B-1B)
                 TR: TOs
                 1B-1B-2-35JG-40-1,
                 1B-1B-2-95JG-00-1,
                 1B-1B-2-95JG-10-1
5.2.1            Ejection Seat
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.2.2            Rocket Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

                                                                 50                                                                                     Attachment 5
                                                                                                                                                    B-1B AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)       (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC       Course   CDC
5.2.3            Seat Carriage
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.2.4            Seat Carriage Load
                 Arrester                        *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

5.2.5            Seat Oxygen Regulator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.2.6            Seat Vertical Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.2.7            Seat Horizontal Actuator
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

5.2.8            Carriage Pin Puller
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.2.9            Seat Carriage Retraction
                 Thruster                                                                                                  -         -        -         -        -

5.3              INSPECT EGRESS
                 COMPONENTS (B-1B)
                 TR: TOs
                 1B-1B-2-95JG-10-1
                 8D1-26-40-3
5.3.1            Seat Carriage
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.3.2            Seat Carriage Load
                 Arrester                        *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

5.3.3            Seat Oxygen Regulator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.3.4            Seat Vertical Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.3.5            Seat Horizontal Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.3.6            Carriage Pin Puller
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.3.7            Seat Carriage Retraction
                 Thruster                                                                                                  -         -        -         -        -

5.4              AIRCRAFT EXPLOSIVE
                 COMPONENTS (B-1B)
5.4.1            Remove /Install TR: TO
                 1B-1B-2-95JG-40-1
5.4.1.1          Shock Propagating Cord
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.4.1.2          SMDC
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -



                                                                 51                                                                                     Attachment 5
                                                                                                                                                    B-1B AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)       (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC       Course   CDC
5.4.1.3          FLSC
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.4.1.4          Ejection Seat Mode
                 Selectors                                                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

5.4.1.5          Energy Transfer Panels
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.4.1.6          AND Gates
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.4.2            Inspect TR: TOs
                 11P17-4-7
                 11P17-5-7
                 11P22-3-7
                 11P22-4-7
5.4.2.1          Shock Propagating Cord
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

5.4.2.2          SMDC
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.4.2.3          FLSC
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.4.2.5          Ejection Seat Mode
                 Selectors                                                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

5.4.2.6          Energy Transfer Panels
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.4.2.7          AND Gates
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.5              CABIN
                 DECOMPRESSION
                 SYSTEM (B-1B)
                 TR: 1B-1B-2-95GS
5.5.1            Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           -         -        B         -        -

5.5.2            Remove and Install Cabin
                 Decompression System
                 Components TR: TOs
                 1B-1B-2-95JG-20-1,
                 1B-1B-2-95JG-40-1
5.5.2.1          Cabin Air Dump Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.5.2.2          Cabin Decompression
                 Sensor                                                                                                    -         -        -         -        -

5.5.3            Inspect Cabin
                 Decompression Systems
                 TR: TOs 11P3-3-23-7
                 11P3-3-24-7


                                                                 52                                                                                     Attachment 5
                                                                                                                                                    B-1B AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)       (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC       Course   CDC
5.5.3.1          Cabin Air Dump Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.5.3.2          Cabin Decompression
                 Sensor                                                                                                    -         -        -         -        -

5.6              BOTTOM BAILOUT
                 SYSTEMS (B-1B)
                 TR: 1B-1B-2-95JG-20-1
5.6.1            Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           -         -        B         -        -

5.6.2            Remove /Install Bottom
                 Bailout System
5.6.2.1          Bottom Bailout Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.6.2.2          Bottom Bailout Rocket
                 Motor                                                                                                     -         -        -         -        -

5.6.2.3          Bottom Bailout cable
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.6.2.4          Stair Ladder Severance
                 Charge                                                                                                    -         -        -         -        -

5.6.3            Inspect Bottom Bailout
                 Systems TR: TOs
                 1B-1B-2-95JG-20-1
                 11P4-13-7
5.6.3.1          Bottom Bailout Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.6.3.2          Bottom Bailout Rocket
                 Motor                                                                                                     -         -        -         -        -

5.6.3.3          Bottom Bailout Cable
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.6.3.4          Stair Ladder Severance
                 Charge                                                                                                    -         -        -         -        -

5.7              HATCH SYSTEMS
                 (B-1B)
                 TR: 1B-1B-2-95GS
5.7.1            Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           -         -        B         -        -

5.7.2            Remove and Install Hatch
                 Systems TR:
                 1B-1B-2-52JG-20-1
5.7.2.1          Aft Escape Hatches
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

5.7.2.2          Hatch Remover
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -


                                                                 53                                                                                     Attachment 5
                                                                                                                                                    B-1B AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)       (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC       Course   CDC
5.7.2.3          Central Equipment Bay
                 Hatch Pin Puller                                                                                          -         -        -         -        -

5.7.2.4          Forward Hatch Linear
                 Shaped Charge                                                                                             -         -        -         -        -

5.7.2.5          Rig Aft Escape Hatches
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.7.3            Inspect Hatch Systems
                 TR: 11P17-4-7
5.7.3.1          Aft Escape Hatches
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

5.7.3.2          Hatch Remover
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

5.7.3.3          Central Equipment Bay
                 Hatch Pin Puller                                                                                          -         -        -         -        -

5.7.3.4          Forward Hatch Linear
                 Shaped Charge                                                                                             -         -        -         -        -




                                                                 54                                                                                     Attachment 5
                                                                                                                                                    B-1B AIRCRAFT
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK




                 55
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)       (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC       Course   CDC
ATTACHMENT 6

NOTE 1: Personnel performing maintenance on Aircrew Egress Systems on the B-2 aircraft perform the tasks and knowledge listed in
this attachment.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 4: Attachments 2, 3, 8, 9, and 10 primarily identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career
Development Courses.

6.1              AIRCRAFT EGRESS
                 SYSTEMS
                 MAINTENANCE (B-2)
                 TR: 13A5-68-2,
                 Applicable 95 series TOs,
                 1B-2A-2-05JG-20-1,
                 AFMAN 91-201 and
                 applicable AFOSH STDs
6.1.1            Theory of system
                 operation                                                                                                 -         -        B         -        -

6.1.2            Aircraft Safe for
                 Maintenance                     *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

6.1.3            De-arm/Arm Egress
                 System                          *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

6.1.4            Raise/Lower Ejection Seat
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -         -        -

6.1.5            Raise/Lower Center
                 Console                                                                                                   -         -        -         -        -

6.1.6            Ops Check Vertical Seat
                 Positioning Actuator                                                                                      -         -        -         -        -

6.1.7            Ops Check Horizontal
                 Seat Positioning Actuator                                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

6.1.8            Perform Seat 30 Month
                 Inspection                                                                                                -         -        -         -        -

6.1.9            Perform Egress Final
                 Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

6.2              SHOP EQUIPMENT
                 TR: TO 35 series
                 Applicable OSHA and
                 AFOSH Standards;
6.2.1            Hatch Vacuum Lifter

6.2.1.1          Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -



                                                                 56                                                                                    Attachment 6
                                                                                                                                                    B-2 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)       (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC       Course   CDC
6.2.1.2          Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.2.1.3          Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.3              Remove and Install
                 Systems (B-2) TR:
                 Applicable -95 series TOs
6.3.1            Crewstation panels
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.3.2            Aircraft RADAR bay
                 panels                                                                                                    -         -        -         -        -

6.3.3            Seat Assembly
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.3.4            Seat Beam Assembly
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.3.5            Seat Link Assembly
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.3.6            Sequence Valve
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.3.7            Check Valve
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.3.8            Priority Valve
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.3.9            Ejection Mode Selector
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.3.10           Seat Adjust Panel
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.3.11           Vertical Seat Positioning
                 Actuator                                                                                                  -         -        -         -        -

6.3.12           Horizontal Seat
                 Positioning Actuator                                                                                      -         -        -         -        -

6.4              Inspect Systems (B-2) TR:
                 Applicable -95 series TOs
6.4.1            Seat Assembly
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.4.2            Seat Beam Assembly
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.4.3            Seat Link Assembly
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.4.4            Sequence Valve
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -



                                                                 57                                                                                    Attachment 6
                                                                                                                                                    B-2 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)       (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC       Course   CDC
6.4.5            Check Valve
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.4.6            Priority Valve
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.4.7            Ejection Mode Selector
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.4.8            Seat Adjust Panel
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.4.9            Vertical Seat Positioning
                 Actuator                                                                                                  -         -        -         -        -

6.4.10           Horizontal Seat
                 Positioning Actuator                                                                                      -         -        -         -        -

6.5              AIRCRAFT EXPLOSIVE
                 COMPONENTS (B-2)
                 TR: TOs
                 1B-2A-2-95JG-00-1 and
                 1B-2A-2-95JG-40-1
6.5.1            Remove and Install
                 Explosive Components
6.5.1.1          0.15 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.5.1.2          0.40 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.5.1.3          2.75 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.5.1.4          Ambient Pressure Delay
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

6.5.1.5          Manually Actuated
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

6.5.1.6          Seat Rocket Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.5.1.7          DTA Lines
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.5.2            Inspect Explosive
                 Components (B-2)
6.5.2.1          0.15 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.5.2.2          0.40 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.5.2.3          2.75 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -



                                                                 58                                                                                    Attachment 6
                                                                                                                                                    B-2 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)       (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC       Course   CDC
6.5.2.4          Ambient Pressure Delay
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

6.5.2.5          Manually Actuated
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

6.5.2.6          Seat Rocket Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.5.2.7          DTA Lines
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.6              HATCH SYSTEMS (B-2)
                 TR: TOs
                 1B-2A-2-95JG-20-1
6.6.1            Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           -         -        B         -        -

6.6.2            Explosive Components

6.6.2.1          Remove and Install Hatch
                 Explosive Components
6.6.2.1.1        Hatch Separation
                 Assembly (Horseshoe)                                                                                      -         -        -         -        -

6.6.2.1.2        Hatch Separation
                 Assembly (Racetrack)                                                                                      -         -        -         -        -

6.6.2.1.3        Hatch Jettison Rocket
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.6.2.1.4        Manually Actuated
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

6.6.2.1.5        DTA Lines
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.6.2.2          Inspect Hatch Explosive
                 Components
6.6.2.2.1        Hatch Separation
                 Assembly (Horseshoe)                                                                                      -         -        -         -        -

6.6.2.2.2        Hatch Separation
                 Assembly (Racetrack)                                                                                      -         -        -         -        -

6.6.2.2.3        Hatch Jettison Rocket
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.6.2.2.4        Manually Actuated
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

6.6.2.2.5        DTA Lines
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.6.3            Remove and Install Hatch
                 components


                                                                 59                                                                                    Attachment 6
                                                                                                                                                    B-2 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level      7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)       (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC       Course   CDC
6.6.3.1          Escape Hatches
                                                                                                                           -         -        -         -        -

6.6.3.2          Internal Hatch Jettison
                 Handle                                                                                                    -         -        -         -        -

6.6.3.3          External Hatch Jettison
                 Handle                                                                                                    -         -        -         -        -

6.6.4            Inspect Hatch
                 Components
6.6.4.1          Escape Hatches
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -         -        -

6.6.4.2          Internal Hatch Jettison
                 Handle                                                                                                    -         -        -         -        -

6.6.4.3          External Hatch Jettison
                 Handle                                                                                                    -         -        -         -        -




                                                                 60                                                                                    Attachment 6
                                                                                                                                                    B-2 AIRCRAFT
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK




                  61
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
ATTACHMENT 7

NOTE 1: Personnel performing maintenance on Aircrew Egress Systems on the B-52 aircraft perform the tasks and knowledge listed in
this attachment.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 4: Attachments 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10 primarily identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career
Development Courses.

7.1              AIRCRAFT EGRESS
                 SYSTEMS
                 MAINTENANCE (B-52)
                 TR: TOs
                 1B-52H-2-36JG-1
                 1B-52H-2-2JG-1,
                 00-80G-2, 91-201 and
                 applicable AFOSH STDs
7.1.1            Theory of system
                 operation                                                                                                 A         -        B       -        -

7.1.2            Aircraft Safe for
                 Maintenance                     *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.1.3            De-arm/Arm Egress
                 System                          *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.1.4            Raise/Lower Upward
                 Ejection Seat                                                                                             -         -        -       -        -

7.1.5            Perform Egress Phase
                 Inspection                      *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.1.6            Synchronize Tilt and
                 Horizontal Seat Actuators                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.7            Perform Egress Final
                 Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.8            Remove and Install
                 Systems (B-52) TR: TOs
                 1B-52H-2-36JG-1,
                 1B-52H-2-36JG-4,
                 1B-52H-2-36JG-5 and
                 1B-52H-2-36JG-6
7.1.8.1          Pilot/Copilot Ejection
                 Seats                           *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.1.8.2          EWO/Gunner Ejection
                 Seats                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

7.1.8.3          Downward Ejection Seats
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.1.8.4          Upward Seat Horizontal
                 Actuators                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

                                                                 62                                                                               Attachment 7
                                                                                                                                              B-52 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
7.1.8.5          Upward Seat Vertical
                 Actuators                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.8.6          Upward Seat Tilt
                 Actuators                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.9.7          Downward Seat
                 Horizontal Actuators                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -

7.1.9.8          Downward Seat Vertical
                 Actuators                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.9.9          Downward Seat Tilt
                 Actuators                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.9.10         Pilot/Copilot Drogue
                 Parachute                       *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.1.9.11         EWO/Gunner Drogue
                 Parachute                       *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.1.9.12         Downward Seat Drogue
                 Parachute                       *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.1.9.13         Personnel Parachute
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.1.9.14         Survival Kit
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.1.10           Inspect Systems (B-52)
                 TR:
                 TOs 1B-52H-2-36JG-1,
                 1B-52H-2-36JG-4,
                 1B-52H-2-36JG-5, and
                 Applicable 13A5 series
                 TOs
7.1.10.1         Upward Seat Actuators
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.1.10.2         Downward Seat
                 Actuators                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.10.3         Pilot/Copilot Drogue
                 Parachute                               *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.10.4         EWO/Gunner Drogue
                 Parachute                               *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.10.5         Downward Seat Drogue
                 Parachute                               *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.10.6         Personnel Parachute
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.1.10.7         Survival Kit
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 63                                                                               Attachment 7
                                                                                                                                              B-52 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
7.2              EJECTION SEATS
                 (B-52) TR: TOs:
                 Applicable 13A5 series
                 and 1B-52H-2-36GA-1
7.2.1            Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           A         -        B       -        -

7.2.2            Perform
                 Operational/Functional                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -
                 Check
7.2.3            Perform Seat Visual
                 Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.2.4            Service components

7.2.4.1          Lubricate
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.4.2          Clean
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.4.3          Troubleshooting
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5            Remove and Install TR:
                 TOs 1B-52H-2-36JG-4
                 thru 1B-52H-2-36JG-7
7.2.5.1          Pilot/Copilot M3A2
                 Arming Initiator                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.2          Pilot/Copilot M3A2
                 Catapult Initiator                                                                                        -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.3          EWO/Gunner M3A2
                 Arming Initiator                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.4          EWO/Gunner M3A2
                 Catapult Initiator                                                                                        -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.5          Downward M3A2
                 Arming Initiator                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.6          Downward M3A2
                 Catapult Initiator                                                                                        -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.7          M-16 Thruster
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.8          M-26 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.9          M-27 Initiator
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.10         M-28 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 64                                                                               Attachment 7
                                                                                                                                              B-52 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
7.2.5.11         Rotary Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.12         Rotary Actuator Harness
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.13         Inertia Reel
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.2.5.14         Inertia Reel Strap
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6            Inspect

7.2.6.1          Pilot/Copilot M3A2
                 Arming Initiator                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.2          Pilot/Copilot M3A2
                 Catapult Initiator                                                                                        -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.3          EWO/Gunner M3A2
                 Arming Initiator                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.4          EWO/Gunner M3A2
                 Catapult Initiator                                                                                        -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.5          Downward M3A2
                 Arming Initiator                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.6          Downward M3A2
                 Catapult Initiator                                                                                        -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.7          M-16 Thruster
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.8          M-26 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.9          M-27 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.10         M-28 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.11         Rotary Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.12         Rotary Actuator Harness
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.13         Inertia Reel
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.2.6.14         Inertia Reel Strap
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 65                                                                               Attachment 7
                                                                                                                                              B-52 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
7.3              AIRCRAFT EXPLOSIVE
                 COMPONENTS (B-52)
                 TR:
                 TOs 1B-52H-2-36JG-4
                 thru 1B-52H-2-36JG-7
7.3.1            Remove and Install
                 Explosive Components
                 (B-52)
7.3.1.1          Pilot/Copilot M3A2 Pin-
                 Pull Initiator                                                                                            -         -        -       -        -

7.3.1.2          EWO/Gunner M3A2 Pin-
                 Pull Initiator                                                                                            -         -        -       -        -

7.3.1.3          Downward M3A2 Pin-
                 Pull Initiator                                                                                            -         -        -       -        -

7.3.1.4          Pilot/Copilot M3A3
                 Control Column Thruster                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

7.3.1.5          Downward M3A3 Table
                 Stowage Thruster                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

7.3.1.6          M5A2 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.3.1.7          M-27 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.3.1.8          M3A1 Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.3.1.9          M4A1 Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.3.2            Inspect Explosive
                 Components (B-52)
7.3.2.1          Pilot/Copilot M3A2 Pin-
                 Pull Initiator                                                                                            -         -        -       -        -

7.3.2.2          EWO/Gunner M3A2 Pin-
                 Pull Initiator                                                                                            -         -        -       -        -

7.3.2.3          Downward M3A2 Pin-
                 Pull Initiator                                                                                            -         -        -       -        -

7.3.2.4          Pilot/Copilot M3A3
                 Control Column Thruster                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

7.3.2.5          Downward M3A3 Table
                 Stowage Thruster                                                                                          -         -        -       -        -

7.3.2.6          M5A2 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.3.2.7          M-27 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 66                                                                               Attachment 7
                                                                                                                                              B-52 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
7.3.2.8          M3A1 Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.3.2.9          M4A1 Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.4              HATCH SYSTEMS
                 (B-52)
7.4.1            Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           A         -        B       -        -

7.4.2            New Escape Hatch
                 Preparation                                                                                               -         -        -       -        -

7.4.3            Escape Hatch
                 Adjustment                                                                                                -         -        -       -        -

7.4.4            Escape Hatch
                 Operational Checkout                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -

7.4.5            Remove/Install Hatch
                 Systems (B-52)
7.4.5.1          Escape Hatches
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.4.5.2          Hatch Lifter Mechanism
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.4.5.3          M1A2 Thruster
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

7.4.6            Inspect Hatch Systems
                 (B-52)
7.4.6.1          Escape Hatches
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

7.4.6.2          Hatch Lifter Mechanism
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

7.4.6.3          M1A2 Thruster
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 67                                                                               Attachment 7
                                                                                                                                              B-52 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
ATTACHMENT 8

NOTE 1: Personnel performing maintenance on Aircrew Egress Systems on the F-15 aircraft perform the tasks and knowledge listed in
this attachment.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 4: Attachments 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10 primarily identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career
Development Courses.

8.1              AIRCRAFT EGRESS
                 SYSTEMS
                 MAINTENANCE (F-15)
                 TR: TOs 13A5-56-11,
                 1F-15()-2-05JG-00-1,                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-1 and
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-3 OR
                 95JG-10-2 (For A/C
                 Model)
8.1.1            Theory of system
                 operation                                                                                                 A         -        B       -        -

8.1.2            Aircraft Safe for
                 Maintenance                     *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

8.1.3            De-arm/Arm Egress
                 System                          *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

8.1.4            Raise/Lower Ejection Seat
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

8.1.5            Raise/Lower Canopy to
                 Maintenance Position            *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

8.1.6            Perform Egress Final
                 Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

8.2              SHOP EQUIPMENT
                 TR: TO 35 series
                 Applicable OSHA and
                 AFOSH Standards;
8.2.1            Seat Maintenance
                 Retainers (Raise Blocks)
                 (F-15) TR: TOs
                 35D6-1-106 and
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-3
8.2.1.1          Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.2.1.2          Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.2.1.3          Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -


                                                                 68                                                                               Attachment 8
                                                                                                                                              F-15 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
8.2.2            Canopy Raise Adapter
                 (F-15) TR: TOs
                 35D6-1-106 and
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-1
8.2.2.1          Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.2.2.2          Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.2.2.3          Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.2.3            Bellcrank Restraint Tool
                 (F-15) TR: TOs
                 35D6-1-106 and
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-1
8.2.3.1          Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.2.3.2          Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.2.3.3          Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3              AIRCRAFT EXPLOSIVE
                 COMPONENTS
8.3.1            Remove and Install
                 Explosive Components
                 TR: TOs
                 1F-15C-2-95JG-10-2,
                 1F-15()-2-95JG-11-2,
                 1F-15()-2-95JG-11-3,
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-21-1 and
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-21-5
8.3.1.1          SMDC Lines
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

8.3.1.2          SMDC to Gas Initiator
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

8.3.1.3          Gas to SMDC Initiator
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

8.3.1.4          Gas to Gas Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.1.5          Seat Rocket Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.1.6          .40 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.1.7          .75 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -


                                                                 69                                                                               Attachment 8
                                                                                                                                              F-15 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
8.3.1.8          1.5 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.1.9          2.0 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.1.10         One Way Transfer
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.1.11         SMDC Sequencer
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.1.12         Ejection Mode Selector
                 Valve                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

8.3.2            Inspect Explosive
                 Components TR: TOs
                 11P1-31-7,
                 11P1-7-WA-1,11P2-3-7,
                 11P3-1-7, 11P3-2-13-7,
                 11P3-3-16-7,
                 11P3-3-17-7,
                 11P3-3-18-7, 11P17-3-7,
                 11P22-2-7,
                 1F-15()-2-95JG-11-2 and
                 1F-15()-2-95JG-11-3
8.3.2.1          SMDC Lines                                                                                               2b         -        b       -        -
                                                 *

8.3.2.2          SMDC to Gas Initiator                                                                                    2b         -        -       -        -

8.3.2.3          Gas to SMDC Initiator                                                                                    2b         -        -       -        -

8.3.2.4          Gas to Gas Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.2.5          Seat Rocket Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.2.6          .40 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.2.7          .75 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.2.8          1.5 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.2.9          2.0 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.2.10         One Way Transfer
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.3.2.11         SMDC Sequencer
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -


                                                                 70                                                                               Attachment 8
                                                                                                                                              F-15 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
8.3.2.12         Ejection Mode Selector
                 Valve                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

8.4              REMOVE AND
                 INSTALL SYSTEM
                 COMPONENTS TR: TOs
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-1,
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-2 and
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-3
8.4.1            Ejection Seat
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

8.4.2            Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.4.3            Pyro Assembly

8.4.3.1          Pyrotechnic Module 1
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.4.3.2          Pyrotechnic Module 2
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.4.3.3          Pyrotechnic Module 3
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        b       -        -

8.4.3.4          Pyrotechnic Module 4
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.5              ASSEMBLE/DISASSEM
                 BLE PYRO ASSEMBLY
                 TR: TOs
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-2 and
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-3
8.5.1            Pyrotechnic Module 1
                                                                                                                          2b         -        -       -        -

8.5.2            Pyrotechnic Module 2
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.5.3            Pyrotechnic Module 3
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

8.5.4            Pyrotechnic Module 4
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.6              Inspect Pyro Assembly
                 TR: TOs
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-2 and
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-11-3
8.6.1            Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.6.2            Pyrotechnic Module 1
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 71                                                                               Attachment 8
                                                                                                                                              F-15 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
8.6.3            Pyrotechnic Module 2
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.6.4            Pyrotechnic Module 3
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

8.6.5            Pyrotechnic Module 4
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.7              CANOPY SYSTEMS
                 (F-15) TR: TOs
                 1F-15C-2-95GS-00-1 and
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-21-5
8.7.1            Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           A         -        B       -        -

8.7.2            Remove/Install Canopy
                 Systems
8.7.2.1          Remover/Cartridge
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.7.2.2          Internal Jettison Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.7.2.3          External Jettison Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.7.2.4          Fired Warning Indicator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.7.2.5          Canopy Actuated Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.7.3            Inspect Canopy Systems
                 TR: TOs
                 11P-1-7, 11P3-3-1-107
                 1F-15E-2-95JG-21-1 and
                 1F-15()-2-95JG-21-5
8.7.3.1          Remover/Cartridge
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.7.3.2          Internal Jettison Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.7.3.3          External Jettison Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.7.3.4          Fired Warning Indicator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

8.7.3.5          Canopy Actuated Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 72                                                                               Attachment 8
                                                                                                                                              F-15 AIRCRAFT
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK




                 73
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
ATTACHMENT 9

NOTE 1: Personnel performing maintenance on Aircrew Egress Systems on the F-16 aircraft perform the tasks and knowledge listed in
this attachment.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 4: Attachments 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10 primarily identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career
Development Courses.

9.1              AIRCRAFT EGRESS
                 SYSTEMS
                 MAINTENANCE (F-16)
                 TR: TOs 13A5-56-11,
                 1F-16CG-2-95JG-10-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-10JG-00-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-00-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95GS-00-1,
                 and 1F-16CJ-6WC-2
9.1.1            Theory of system
                 operation                                                                                                 A         -        B       -        -

9.1.2            Perform Seat Installation
                 Follow-on Maintenance
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -
                 Operational/
                 Functional checks.
9.1.3            Aircraft Safe for
                 Maintenance                     *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

9.1.4            De-arm/Arm Egress
                 System                          *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

9.1.5            Raise/Lower Ejection Seat
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

9.1.6            Rotate Ejection Seat
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

9.1.7            Perform Egress Phase
                 Inspection                      *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

9.1.8            Perform Egress Final
                 Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

9.2              AIRCRAFT EXPLOSIVE
                 COMPONENTS (F-16)




                                                                 74                                                                               Attachment 9
                                                                                                                                              F-16 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
9.2.1            Remove and Install
                 Aircraft Explosive
                 Components TR: TOs
                 1F-16CG-2-10JG-00-1,
                 1F-16CG-2-95JG-10-1,
                 1F-16CG-2-95JG-10-2,
                 1F-16CG-2-95JG-00-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-10-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-10-2,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-2,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-3 and
                 13A5-56-11
9.2.1.1          DTA Lines
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

9.2.1.2          Emergency Canopy
                 Release Lines (ECRL)                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -

9.2.1.3          Internal Canopy Jettison
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

9.2.1.4          External Canopy Jettison
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

9.2.1.5          Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.1.6          M-99 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.1.7          M-53 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.1.8          Gas Fired DTA Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.1.9          .33 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.1.10         .40 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.1.11         1.0 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 75                                                                               Attachment 9
                                                                                                                                              F-16 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
9.2.2            Inspect Aircraft Explosive
                 Components TR: TOs
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-10-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-10-2,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-2,
                 11P1-31-7, 11P3-1-7,
                 11P3-2-15-7,
                 11P3-2-16-7,
                 11P3-2-17-7,
                 11P3-3-20-7, 11P4-14-7
                 and 13A5-56-11
9.2.2.1          DTA Lines
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        b       -        -

9.2.2.2          Emergency Canopy
                 Release Lines (ECRL)                                                                                      -         -        -       -        -

9.2.2.3          Internal Canopy Jettison
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

9.2.2.4          External Canopy Jettison
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

9.2.2.5          Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.2.6          M-99 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.2.7          M-53 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.2.8          Gas Fired DTA Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.2.9          .33 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.2.10         .40 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.2.2.11         1.0 Time Delay Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.3              SHOP EQUIPMENT
                 TR: TO 35 series
                 Applicable OSHA and
                 AFOSH Standards; TOs
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-10-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-1,
                 35D6-1-106,
                 35D3-3-26-1 and
                 36A11-18-7-1


                                                                 76                                                                               Attachment 9
                                                                                                                                              F-16 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
9.3.1            Canopy Sling (F-16)

9.3.1.1          Use
                                                                                                                                              b

9.3.1.2          Inspect
                                                                                                                                              b

9.3.1.3          Maintain

9.3.2            Canopy Support Strut
                 (F-16)
9.3.2.1          Use

9.3.2.2          Inspect

9.3.2.3          Maintain

9.3.3            Canopy Support
                 Maintenance
                 /Transportation Fixture
                 (F-16)
9.3.3.1          Use

9.3.3.2          Inspect

9.3.3.3          Maintain

9.3.4            Seat Raise Bar (F-16)

9.3.4.1          Use
                                                                                                                          2b

9.3.4.2          Inspect
                                                                                                                          2b

9.3.4.3          Maintain
                                                                                                                           b

9.3.5            Seat Tilt Spacer (F-16)

9.3.5.1          Use

9.3.5.2          Inspect

9.3.5.3          Maintain


                                                                 77                                                                               Attachment 9
                                                                                                                                              F-16 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
9.4              REMOVE AND
                 INSTALL SYSTEM
                 COMPONENTS TR: TOs
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-10-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-10-2 and
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-1
9.4.1            Ejection Seat
                                                 *                                                                        2b         -        -       -        -

9.4.2            Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.4.3            Forward Seat Support
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.4.4            Aft Seat Support
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.4.5            Sequence Valve
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.4.6            Eject Mode Selector
                 Valve                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

9.5              INSPECT SYSTEM
                 COMPONENTS TR: TOs
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-10-1
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-10-2 and
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-1
9.5.1            Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.5.2            Forward Seat Support
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.5.3            Aft Seat Support
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.5.4            Sequence Valve
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.5.5            Eject Mode Selector
                 Valve                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

9.6              CANOPY SYSTEMS
                 (F-16)
                 TR: AFMAN 91-201;
                 applicable OSHA and
                 AFOSH Standards; TOs
                 16W2-5-2 and
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-1
9.6.1            Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           A         -        B       -        -




                                                                 78                                                                               Attachment 9
                                                                                                                                              F-16 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
9.6.2            Perform
                 Operational/Functional
                 Check TR: TOs
                 1F-16CJ-2-95FI-00-1,
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-00-1
                 and 16W2-5-2
9.6.2.1          Mechanical Systems
                                                                                                                           -         -        b       -        -

9.6.2.2          Electrical Systems
                                                                                                                           -         -        b       -        -

9.6.2.3          Rig Canopy
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        b       -        -

9.6.2.4          Troubleshoot Canopy
                 System                                  *                                                                 -         -        b       -        -

9.6.3            Remove and Install
                 Canopy Systems TR: TOs
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-1
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-2
                 16W2-5-2
9.6.3.1          Canopy
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        b       -        -

9.6.3.2          Actuator (F-16 A/C)
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.6.3.3          Actuator (F-16 B/D)
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.6.3.4          Manual Flex Drive
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.6.3.5          Canopy Remover Rocket
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.6.3.6          Canopy Actuator Release
                 Bolt (CARB)                                                                                               -         -        -       -        -

9.6.3.7          Canopy Transparency
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.6.3.8          Aft Canopy Transparency
                 (F-16 B/D)                                                                                                -         -        -       -        -

9.6.4            Inspect Canopy Systems
                 TR: TOs
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-1
                 1F-16CJ-2-95JG-20-2
                 16W2-5-2
9.6.4.1          Perform canopy visual
                 inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

9.6.4.2          Perform 36 month
                 inspection.                     *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

                                                                 79                                                                               Attachment 9
                                                                                                                                              F-16 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
9.6.4.3          Actuator (F-16 A/C)
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.6.4.4          Actuator (F-16 B/D)
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.6.4.5          Manual Flex Drive
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

9.6.4.6          Canopy Remover
                 Rocket                                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -

9.6.4.7          Canopy Actuator Release
                 Bolt (CARB)                                                                                               -         -        -       -        -

9.6.4.8          Canopy Transparency
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

9.6.4.9          Aft Canopy Transparency
                 (F-16 B/D)                                                                                                -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 80                                                                               Attachment 9
                                                                                                                                              F-16 AIRCRAFT
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK




                 81
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
ATTACHMENT 10

NOTE 1: Personnel performing maintenance on Aircrew Egress Systems on the F-22 aircraft perform the tasks and knowledge listed in
this attachment.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 4: Attachments 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10 primarily identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career
Development Courses.

10.1             AIRCRAFT EGRESS
                 SYSTEMS
                 MAINTENANCE (F-22)
                 TR: TOs 00-80G-41,
                 1F-22A-00GV-1,
                 15X-1-1,
                 LCN 951010A1,
                 LCN 1350412A and
                 LCN 952010A1
10.1.1           Theory of system
                 operation                                                                                                 -         -        B       -        -

10.1.2           Aircraft Safe for
                 Maintenance                     *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

10.1.3           De-arm/Arm Egress
                 System                          *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

10.1.4           Raise/Lower Ejection Seat
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

10.1.5           Perform Egress Final
                 Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

10.1.6           Troubleshoot Aircraft
                 Egress Electrical System                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

10.1.7           Perform Flightline/
                 Maintenance Emergency
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -
                 Escape System Sequencer
                 Test
10.1.8           Service Emergency
                 Oxygen Cylinder (Bottle         *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -
                 Assembly)
10.2             SHOP EQUIPMENT
                 TR: TO 35 series
                 Applicable OSHA and
                 AFOSH Standards;
10.2.1           Canopy Sling (F-22)

10.2.1.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -


                                                                  82                                                                             Attachment 10
                                                                                                                                              F-22 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
10.2.1.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.2.1.3         Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.2.2           Canopy Support Strut
                 (F-22)
10.2.2.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.2.2.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.2.2.3         Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.2.3           Canopy Support
                 Maintenance
                 /Transportation Fixture
                 (F-22)
10.2.3.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.2.3.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.2.3.3         Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.2.4           Cockpit Floor Cover
                 (F-22)
10.2.4.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.2.4.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.2.4.3         Maintain
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.3             REMOVE/INSTALL
                 TR: LCN 951010A1,
                 LCN 951033,
                 LCN 952010A1 and
                 LCN 952020
10.3.1           Emergency Escape
                 System Sequencer (EESS)                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

10.3.2           Ejection Seat
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

10.3.3           Central Integrated
                 Processor (CIP) Cutter                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -

10.3.4           CIP Cutter Electro-
                 Explosive Devices (EED)                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

                                                                  83                                                                             Attachment 10
                                                                                                                                              F-22 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
10.3.5           Rocket Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.3.6           Rocket Catapult EEDs
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.3.7           Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.4             INSPECT
                 TR: LCN 951033
                 LCN 952010
                 LCN 952020
10.4.1           Emergency Escape
                 System Sequencer (EESS)                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

10.4.2           Central Integrated
                 Processor (CIP) Cutter                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -

10.4.3           CIP Cutter Electro-
                 Explosive Devices (EED)                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

10.4.4           Rocket Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.4.5           Rocket Catapult EEDs
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.4.6           Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.5             CANOPY SYSTEMS
                 (F-22) TR:
                 LCN 561110A1
10.5.1           Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           -         -        B       -        -

10.5.2           Perform Canopy Bolt
                 Hole Inspection                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.5.3           Rig Canopy
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.6             PERFORM
                 OPERATIONAL/
                 FUNCTIONAL CHECK
10.6.1           Mechanical Systems
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.6.2           Electrical Systems
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.6.3           Troubleshoot Canopy
                 System                                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -




                                                                  84                                                                             Attachment 10
                                                                                                                                              F-22 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                          Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
10.7             REMOVE AND
                 INSTALL CANOPY
                 SYSTEMS TR:
                 LCN 952010
                 LCN 952013
                 LCN 952014
                 LCN 561110A1
                 LCN 561210
10.7.1           Canopy Assembly
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

10.7.2           Thruster
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.7.3           Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.7.4           Jettison Internal Thermal
                 Battery                                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

10.7.5           Jettison External Thermal
                 Battery                                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

10.7.6           Remover Rocket
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.7.7           EEDs
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.8             INSPECT CANOPY
                 SYSTEMS TR:
                 LCN 561110A1,
                 LCN 561210,
                 LCN 952013,
                 LCN 952014,
                 LCN 952015 and
                 LCN 952016
10.8.1           Canopy Assembly
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.8.2           Thruster
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.8.3           Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.8.4           Jettison Internal Thermal
                 Battery                                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

10.8.5           Jettison External Thermal
                 Battery                                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

10.8.6           Remover Rocket
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

10.8.7           EEDs
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

                                                                  85                                                                             Attachment 10
                                                                                                                                              F-22 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
ATTACHMENT 11

NOTE 1: Personnel performing maintenance on Aircrew Egress Systems on the T-38 aircraft perform the tasks and knowledge listed in
this attachment.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 4: Attachments 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10 primarily identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career
Development Courses.

11.1             AIRCRAFT EGRESS
                 SYSTEMS
                 MAINTENANCE (T-38)
                 TR: TOs
                 1T-38A-2-1 and
                 1T-38A-2-2
11.1.1           Theory of system
                 operation                                                                                                 -         -        B       -        -

11.1.2           Aircraft Safe for
                 Maintenance                                                                                               -         -        -       -        -

11.1.3           De-arm/Arm Egress
                 System                          *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

11.1.4           Perform Egress Phase
                 Inspection                                                                                                -         -        -       -        -

11.1.5           Perform Egress Final
                 Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

11.2             EJECTION SEATS
                 TR: TOs
                 1T-38A-2-1 and
                 1T-38A-2-2
11.2.1           Perform Operational
                 Check/Test of Ejection                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -
                 Seat
11.2.2           Perform Operational
                 Check HBU-12 Series                                                                                       -         -        -       -        -
                 Lap Belt
11.3             SERVICE
                 COMPONENTS
                 TR: TOs 1T-38A-2-1 and
                 1T-38A-2-2
11.3.1           Lubricate
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.3.2           Clean
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.3.3           Troubleshoot
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 86                                                                              Attachment 11
                                                                                                                                              T-38 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
11.3.4           Perform seat visual
                 inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

11.4             REMOVE AND
                 INSTALL
                 TR: TOs 13A5-45-3,
                 13A5-45-4, 13A12-13-3
11.4.1           Survival Kit Container
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.2           Drogue Parachute
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

11.4.3           Drogue Harness
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.4           Drogue Gun
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.5           Inertia Reel
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.6           Inertia Reel Straps
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.7           Inertia Reel Harness
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.8           Inertia Reel Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.9           Rotary Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.10          1007-4 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.11          1010-4 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.12          1139-5 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.4.13          M-53 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5             INSPECT TR: TOs
                 13A5-45-3, 13A5-45-4,
                 13A12-13-3 and
                 11- Series
11.5.1           Survival Kit Container
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.2           Drogue Parachute
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.3           Drogue Harness
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 87                                                                              Attachment 11
                                                                                                                                              T-38 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
11.5.4           Drogue Gun
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.5           Inertia Reel
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.6           Inertia Reel Straps
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.7           Inertia Reel Harness
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.8           Inertia Reel Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.9           Rotary Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.10          1007-4 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.11          1010-4 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.12          1139-5 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.5.13          M-53 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.6             AIRCRAFT EXPLOSIVE
                 COMPONENTS (T-38)
                 TR: TOs 1T-38A-2-1,
                 1T-38A-2-2, 11- Series
11.6.1           REMOVE/INSTALL
                 EXPLOSIVE
                 COMPONENTS TR: TOs
                 1T-38A-2-1, 1T-38A-2-2
11.6.1.1         Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.6.1.2         M-27 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.6.1.3         M-31 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.6.2           INSPECT EXPLOSIVE
                 COMPONENTS TR: TOs
                 1T-38A-2-1, 1T-38A-2-2,
                 11- Series
11.6.2.1         Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.6.2.2         M-27 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.6.2.3         M-31 Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

                                                                 88                                                                              Attachment 11
                                                                                                                                              T-38 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
11.6.3           REMOVE/INSTALL
                 SEAT COMPONENTS
                 TR: TOs 1T-38A-2-1,
                 1T-38A-2-2
11.6.3.1         Ejection Seat
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

11.6.3.2         Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.6.4           INSPECT SEAT
                 COMPONENTS TR: TOs
                 1T-38A-2-1,
                 1T-38A-2-2
                 and 11- Series
11.6.4.1         Ejection Seat
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

11.6.4.2         Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.7             CANOPY SYSTEMS
                 (T-38) TR: TOs
                 1T-38A-2-1,
                 1T-38A-2-2
                 and 11- Series
11.7.1           Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           -         -        B       -        -

11.7.2           Perform
                 Operational/Functional
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -
                 Check of Mechanical
                 Systems
11.7.3           Rig Canopy Jettison
                 T-Handle                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

11.7.4           INSPECT CANOPY
                 SYSTEMS TR: TOs
                 1T-38A-2-1,
                 1T-38A-2-2
                 and 11- Series
11.7.4.1         Canopy
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.7.4.2         Canopy Thruster
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

11.7.5           REMOVE/INSTALL
                 TR: TOs
                 1T-38A-2-1,
                 1T-38A-2-2
11.7.5.1         Canopy
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

11.7.5.2         Canopy Thruster
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

                                                                 89                                                                              Attachment 11
                                                                                                                                              T-38 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
11.7.5.3         Canopy Jettison T-Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 90                                                                              Attachment 11
                                                                                                                                              T-38 AIRCRAFT
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK




             91
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014

                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
ATTACHMENT 12

NOTE 1: Personnel performing maintenance on Aircrew Egress Systems on the U-2 aircraft perform the tasks and knowledge listed in
this attachment.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 4: Attachments 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10 primarily identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career
Development Courses.

12.1             AIRCRAFT EGRESS
                 SYSTEMS
                 MAINTENANCE (U-2)
                 TR: TOs 1U-2S-2-2,
                 1U-2S-2-1, RQ201,
                 any applicable prints
12.1.1           Theory of system
                 operation                                                                                                 -         -        B       -        -

12.1.2           Aircraft Safe for
                 Maintenance                     *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.1.3           Research/Interpret
                 Applicable Engineering                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -
                 Drawings/Blueprints
12.1.4           Perform Egress Phase
                 Inspection                      *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.1.5           Perform Egress Final
                 Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.2             EJECTION SEATS
                 TR: TO RQ201
12.2.1           Perform Operational
                 Check of Aneroid                *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -
                 Initiators
12.2.2           Foot Retractor and
                 Retention System                *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -
                 Checkout
12.2.3           D-Ring Cable Cutter
                 Checkout                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

12.2.4           D-Ring Pull and
                 Actuation Checkout              *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.2.5           T-Handle Pull and
                 Actuation Checkout              *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.2.6           Suit Vent Hose Lanyard
                 Pull Check Out                  *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.2.7           Parachute Arming Cable
                 Release Checkout                *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

                                                                 92                                                                            Attachment 12
                                                                                                                                              U-2 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
12.2.8           Seat Ballistic Hose Flow
                 Check                           *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.2.9           Lap Belt Checkout
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.2.10          Torque Tube Thruster
                 Checkout                        *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.2.11          Shoulder Harness Reel
                 Thruster Checkout               *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.2.12          Perform Seat Visual
                 Inspection                              *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.3             SERVICE
                 COMPONENTS
                 TR: TO’s 1-1A-8, RQ201
12.3.1           Lubricate
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.3.2           Clean
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.3.3           Troubleshooting
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4             REMOVE/INSTALL
                 TR: TO’s RQ201
12.4.1           Face Heat Battery
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.4.2           Rotary Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4.3           Aneroid Initiators
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.4.4           0.2 sec Delay Drogue Gun
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4.5           Gas Fired Initiators
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4.6           1.0 sec Time Delay
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.4.7           0.3 sec Time Delay
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.4.8           Upper Drogue Riser
                 Cutters                                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

12.4.9           Lower Drogue Riser
                 Cutters                                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

12.4.10          Inertia Reel
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 93                                                                            Attachment 12
                                                                                                                                              U-2 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
12.4.11          Inertia Reel Thruster
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.4.12          Foot Retractor Actuator
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.4.13          Foot Reels
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.4.14          Foot Cables
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.4.15          Foot Cable Cutters
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4.16          Egress System Check
                 Valves                                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -

12.4.17          Drogue Chute
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.4.18          Drogue Riser Lines
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.4.19          D-Ring Assembly
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4.20          D-Ring Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4.21          T-Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4.22          Scramble Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4.23          Scramble Handle Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4.24          Lap Belt
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.4.25          Torque Tube Thruster
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5             INSPECT
                 TR: TO's RQ201,
                 11-P SERIES
12.5.1           Face Heat Battery
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.5.2           Rotary Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.3           Aneroid Initiators
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.5.4           0.2 sec Delay Drogue Gun
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 94                                                                            Attachment 12
                                                                                                                                              U-2 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
12.5.5           Gas Fired Initiators
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.6           1.0 sec Time Delay
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.5.7           0.3 sec Time Delay
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.5.8           Upper Drogue Riser
                 Cutters                                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

12.5.9           Lower Drogue Riser
                 Cutters                                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

12.5.10          Inertia Reel
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.11          Inertia Reel Thruster
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.12          Foot Retractor Actuator
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.5.13          Foot Reels
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.5.14          Foot Cables
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.5.15          Foot Cable Cutters
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.16          Egress System Check
                 Valves                                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -

12.5.17          Drogue Chute
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.5.18          Drogue Riser Lines
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.5.19          D-Ring Assembly
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.20          D-Ring Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.21          T-Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.22          T-Handle Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.23          Scramble Handle
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.24          Scramble Handle Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 95                                                                            Attachment 12
                                                                                                                                              U-2 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
12.5.25          Lap Belt
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.5.26          Torque Tube Thruster
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.6             REMOVE AND
                 INSTALL
                 TR: TO 1U-2S-2-2
12.6.1           Ejection Seat
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.6.2           Seat Actuator
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.6.3           Egress System Check
                 Valves                                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -

12.6.4           Ejection Seat Track
                 Assembly                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

12.7             INSPECT TR: TOs
                 RQ201, 1U-2S-2-2
12.7.1           Seat Actuator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.7.2           Egress System Check
                 Valves                                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -

12.7.3           Ejection Seat Track
                 Assembly                                                                                                  -         -        -       -        -

12.8             AIRCRAFT EXPLOSIVE
                 COMPONENTS
                 TR: TO 1U-2S-2-2
12.8.1           Remove/Install Rocket
                 Catapult              *                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

12.8.2           Inspect Rocket Catapult
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.9             CANOPY SYSTEMS
                 (U-2) TR: TO's
                 1U-2S-2-2, 1U-2(T)S-2
12.9.1           Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                           -         -        B       -        -

12.9.2           Airframe Mounted
                 Ballistic Line Checkout         *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.9.3           Airframe Mounted
                 Ballistic Line Checkout                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -
                 (Trainer)
12.9.4           Canopy Jettison Handle
                 Pull Checkout                   *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.9.5           Canopy Jettison Handle
                 Pull Checkout (Trainer)                                                                                   -         -        -       -        -

                                                                 96                                                                            Attachment 12
                                                                                                                                              U-2 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
12.10            REMOVE AND
                 INSTALL CANOPY
                 SYSTEM
                 COMPONENTS
                 TR: TO 1U-2S-2-2
12.10.1          M-11 Thrusters
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.10.2          Unlock Thruster
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.10.3          T-Handle Internal
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.10.4          T-Handle External
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.10.5          T-Handle Internal Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.10.6          T-Handle External
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.10.7          1.0 sec Time Delay
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.10.8          Upper Gas Fired Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.10.9          Lower Gas Fired Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.10.10         Nose Gas Fired Initiator
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

12.11            INSPECT CANOPY
                 SYSTEM
                 COMPONENTS
                 TR: TO's 1U-2S-2-2,
                 RQ201, 1U-2S-2-1,
                 1U-2(T)S-2
12.11.1          M-11 Thrusters
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.11.2          Unlock Thruster
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.11.3          T-Handle Internal
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.11.4          T-Handle External
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.11.5          T-Handle Internal Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.11.6          T-Handle External
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -


                                                                 97                                                                            Attachment 12
                                                                                                                                              U-2 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
12.11.7          1.0 sec Time Delay
                 Initiator                                                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

12.11.8          Upper Gas Fired Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.11.9          Lower Gas Fired Initiator
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

12.11.10         Nose Gas Fired Initiator
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 98                                                                            Attachment 12
                                                                                                                                              U-2 AIRCRAFT
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK




             99
                                                                                                                         STS 2AX7X
                                         AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                                3. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                                        A          B           C
                                                                                                               3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                                   (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                                  Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDCs.

AA.1.           MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
AA.1.1.        Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
               TR: AFI 21-101 and Repair Enterprise 21 Fact Sheet                                                                                       A
              (https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrowser.aspx?id=32781
AA.1.2.        Maintenance Concept
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
AA.1.3.        Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54.
AA.1.4.        Operating Instructions (OI)
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
AA.1.5.        Support Agreements (SA)
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 25-201
AA.1.6.        Modification and Configuration Management
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.1.7.        Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
                                                                                                                                                        B
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, AFCSM 21-556 volume 2, and TO 00-20-2
AA.1.8.        Maintenance Performance Indicator Metrics and Health of the Fleet
                                                                                                                                                        B
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
AA.1.9.        Personnel Utilization
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.1.10.       Maintenance Repair Priorities
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.1.11.       Minimum Essential System Listing (MESL)
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
AA.1.12.       Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), and AEF Reporting Tool (ART)
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244 and https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil/art.aspx
AA.1.13.       Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and T.O. 00-20-1
AA.1.14.       Maintenance Scheduling Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                                        A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.         MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.2.1.       Wing Commander (WG/CC)
                                                                                                                                                        A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.2.2.        Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
                                                                                                                                                        A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.2.3.        Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
                                                                                                                                                        A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.2.4.        Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
                                                                                                                                                        A
              TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.5.        MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
                                                                                                                                                        A
              TR: AFI 21-101

                                                             100                                                              Attachment 13
                                                                                                                                    2AX7X
                                                                                                        STS 2AX7X
                                        AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                               3. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                               Provided
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                       A          B           C
                                                                                              3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                  (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                 Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.2.6.        Squadron Commander (SQ/CC) Responsibilities
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.7.        Operations Officer and Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT) Responsibilities
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.8.        Flight Commander/Flight Chief
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.9.        AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.10.       Section NCOIC
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.11.       Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.2.12.       Expediter
                                                                                                                                       B
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.3.          FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.3.1.        Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.3.2.        Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
AA.3.3.        Programs and Resources Flight
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.3.4.        Quality Assurance (QA) Flight
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.          FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
              (AMXS/HMXS) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.4.1.        Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.2.        Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.3.        Aircraft Section
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.4.        Specialist Section
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.5.        Weapons Section
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.6.        Plans, Scheduling and Documentation Section (PS&D)
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.4.7.        Support Section
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.          FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.5.1.        Accessories Flight
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.2.        Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.3.        Armament Flight
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.4.        Avionics Flight
                                                                                                                                       A
               TR: AFI 21-101

                                                     101                                                     Attachment 13
                                                                                                                   2AX7X
                                                                                                            STS 2AX7X
                                        AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                   3. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                   Provided
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                           A          B           C
                                                                                                  3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                      (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                     Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.5.5.        Fabrication Flight
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.6.        Maintenance Flight
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.7.        Munitions Flight
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-201
AA.5.8.        Propulsion Flight
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.5.9.        Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.6.           AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.6.1.        Air Logistics Centers (ALC)
               TR: AFMCMD (Mission Directives) 406, 407 and 410.
               Located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm,
                                                                                                                                           A
               OO-ALC Brochure located at: http://www.hill.af.mil/main/index.html,
               WR-ALC: http://www.robins.af.mil/units/402mw.asp and
               OC-ALC: http://www.tinker.af.mil/units/
AA.6.2.        Air Force Flight Test Center
               TR: AFMCMD 404 located at https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm
                                                                                                                                           A
               and Flight Test Center Fact Sheet locate at:
              http://www.edwards.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet_print.asp?fsID=6573&page=1
AA.6.3.        Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center (AMARC)
               TR: AFMCMD 415 located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm                                                A
              and http://www.dm.af.mil/units/amarc.asp
AA.7.         MAINTENANCE TRAINING
AA.7.1        Types of Training
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
AA.7.2.        Training Documentation
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AFI 36-2201 (Vol. 1-6)
AA.7.3.        Special Certification Rosters
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.7.4.        Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AFPD 10-9.
AA.7.5.       Training Forecast / Request
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 36-2232 and AFI 21-101
AA.7.6.       Training Development Process
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AETCI 36-2601
AA.8.           PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AA.8.1.         Capability Based Manpower Standard and Logistics Composite Model (LCOM)
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFMAN 38-208 Volume 3, AFI 38-201 and AFI 21-101
AA.8.2.        Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                                                           A
               TR: AFI 38-201 and AFI 36-2110
AA.9.          MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
AA.9.1.       Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                                           A
              TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.2.       Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                                           A
              TR: AFI 21-101

                                                        102                                                      Attachment 13
                                                                                                                       2AX7X
                                                                                                       STS 2AX7X
                                        AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                              3. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                              Provided
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                      A          B           C
                                                                                             3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                 (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.9.3.        Consumables Management
                                                                                                                                      A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.4.        Equipment Items
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.5.       Special Purpose Recoverable Authorized Maintenance (SPRAM) Assets
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFI 21-103
AA.9.6.       Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight
              Programming                                                                                                             A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.7.       Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.8.       Supply Points
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.9.       Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.10.       Repair Cycle Assets / Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
AA.9.11.       Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.12.       Maintenance Repair / Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.13.       Classified Assets
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
AA.9.14.       Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFMAN 24-204_IP and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.15.      Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
                                                                                                                                      B
               TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
AA.10.        TECHNICAL ORDER POLICY
              TR: TO 00-5-1, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-303
AA.10.1.       Use of Technical Orders (TO), TO Supplements and Publications
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 21-101
AA.10.2.       Technical Order Update Process
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 63-101
AA.10.3.       Technical Order Waivers
                                                                                                                                      A
               TR: AFI 63-101 and AFI 21-101
AA.11.          MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
AA.11.1.       Cannibalization Program
                                                                                                                                      A
              TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.2.       Restricted Maintenance Areas
                                                                                                                                      A
              TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.3.       Red Ball Maintenance
                                                                                                                                      A
              TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.4.       Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
                                                                                                                                      A
              TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.5.      Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP) Purpose and
              Inspection Types                                                                                                        B
              TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.6.       Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
                                                                                                                                      A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232


                                                       103                                                  Attachment 13
                                                                                                                  2AX7X
                                                                                                         STS 2AX7X
                                        AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                3. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                        A          B           C
                                                                                               3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                   (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                  Crse           CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.11.7.    Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
                                                                                                                                        A
           TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.8.   Tool Management
                                                                                                                                        A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.9.    Tool Accountability
                                                                                                                                        A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.9.1.  Marking and Tool Identification
                                                                                                                                        A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.9.2.  Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
                                                                                                                                        A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.9.3.  Lost Item/Tool Procedures
                                                                                                                                        A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.10.   Maintenance Recovery Team
                                                                                                                                        A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.11.    Aging Aircraft / Equipment Issues
                                                                                                                                        A
            TR: AFI 21-101, DoD 5010.12-M and DMSMS Guide Book (SD-22)
AA.11.12.   Quality Assurance Evaluators
                                                                                                                                        A
            TR: AFI 21-101
AA.11.13.   Computer Applications
            TR: AF Portal, AF E-Publishing site, AF IT E-Learning site, Advanced Distributed
           Learning Services (ADLS) site, AF Center of Excellence for Knowledge
                                                                                                                                        A
           Management (AFKM) site, Defense Travel System (DTS) training site, Air & Space
           Expeditionary Force Center site and the AF Center for Electronic Distribution of
           Systems (AFCEDS) site
AA.11.14.   Mobility
                                                                                                                                        A
            TR: AFI 10-403, AFI 21-101, and the AFPAM 10-100 (Airman’s Manual)
AA.11.15.   Crashed Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program
                                                                                                                                        A
            TR: AFI 21-101




                                                    104                                                       Attachment 13
                                                                                                                    2AX7X
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK




             105
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
ATTACHMENT 14

NOTE 1: Personnel performing maintenance on Aircrew Egress Systems on the F-35 aircraft perform the tasks and knowledge listed in
this attachment.

NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

NOTE 3: Items in column 2 marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.

NOTE 4: Attachments 2, 3, 8, 9 and 10 primarily identify the tasks/knowledge levels covered by the AETC courses and in the Career
Development Courses.

14.1             13.1. JOINT
                 TECHNICAL DATA
                 (JTD)TR: ALIS ON LINE
                 USER'S GUIDE & TO
                 00-5-1
14.1.1           Use Joint Data Library
                 Usage                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

14.1.2           Use Joint Technical Data
                 (JTD)                           *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.2             COMPUTERIZED
                 MAINTENANCE
                 MANAGEMENT
                 SYSTEM (CMMS) TR:
                 ALIS ON LINE USER'S
                 GUIDE & TO 00-20-1
14.2.1           Create Action Request
                 (AR)                            *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.2.2           Create Task
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.2.3           Create Fault
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.2.4           Clear Task
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.2.5           Clear Fault
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.2.6           Order Parts
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.2.7           Receive Parts
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.2.8           Retrieve Supply Reports
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.3             AIRCRAFT GENERAL
                 TR: JTD




                                                                 106                                                                                    Attachment 14
                                                                                                                                                     F-35 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
14.3.1           Position Maintenance
                 Ladder                                                                                                    -         -        -       -        -

14.3.2           Position Maintenance
                 Stand                                                                                                     -         -        -       -        -

14.3.3           Install Protective Matting
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.3.4           Chocking Aircraft
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.3.5           Boarding Ladder -
                 Lower/Stow                                                                                                -         -        -       -        -

14.3.6           Static Ground Aircraft
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.3.7           PMA Connect/Disconnect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.3.8           Aircraft Safe For
                 Maintenance
14.3.8.1         Ground
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.3.8.2         Cockpit
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.3.8.3         Electrical
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.3.9           Canopy Opening/Closing

14.3.9.1         Electrically
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.3.9.2         Manually
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.4             EJECTION SEAT
                 TR: JTD
14.4.1           Remove
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.4.2           Install
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.4.3           Dearm
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.4.4           Arm
                                                 *

14.4.5           Inspect
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 107                                                                                    Attachment 14
                                                                                                                                                     F-35 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
14.4.6           Neck Protection Device
                 (NPD)
14.4.6.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.6.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.7           Back Cushion

14.4.7.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.7.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.8           Seat Cushion

14.4.8.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.8.2           Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.9           Shoulder Pad

14.4.9.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.9.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.10          Head Pad Cover

14.4.10.1        Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.10.2        Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.11          PIRD STRAPS

14.4.11.1        Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.11.2        Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.12          Recovery Parachute
                 Simplified Harness
14.4.12.1        Remove
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 108                                                                                    Attachment 14
                                                                                                                                                     F-35 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
14.4.12.2        Install
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.4.13          Seat Survival Kit (SSK)

14.4.13.1        Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.13.2        Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.14          Personnel locater Beacon

14.4.14.1        Op’s Check
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.15          Back-up Oxygen System
                 (BOS) Bottle
14.4.15.1        Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.15.2        Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.16          Seat Portion Assembly
                 (SPA)
14.4.16.1        Remove
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.4.16.2        Install
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.4.17          Helmet Transmitter Unit
                 (HTU)
14.4.17.1        Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.4.17.2        Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5             COCKPIT
                 TR: JTD
14.5.1           Panels

14.5.1.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.1.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.2           Canopy Actuator




                                                                 109                                                                                    Attachment 14
                                                                                                                                                     F-35 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
14.5.2.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.2.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.3           L/H HGI - DONOR
                 RAPID
                 DEFLAGRATING
                 CORD TRANSFER
                 LINES (RDCTL)
14.5.3.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.3.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.4           R/H HGI - DONOR
                 RAPID
                 DEFLAGRATING
                 CORD TRANSFER
                 LINES (RDCTL)
14.5.4.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.4.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.5           Donor Assembly

14.5.5.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.5.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.6           Rail Assembly

14.5.6.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.6.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.6.3         Inspect
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

14.5.6.4         Op’s Check
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.7           Aircraft Interface
                 Disconnect Unit (AIDU)
14.5.7.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -



                                                                 110                                                                                    Attachment 14
                                                                                                                                                     F-35 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
14.5.7.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.7.3         Inspect
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

14.5.8           Hot Gas Initiator (HGI

14.5.8.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.8.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.9           Leg Restraint Line Clips

14.5.9.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.5.9.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6             TRANSPARENCY
                 REMOVAL SYSTEM
                 (TRS)
                 TR: JTD
14.6.1           Canopy Assembly

14.6.1.1         Remove
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.6.1.2         Install
                                                 *                                                                         -         -        -       -        -

14.6.1.3         Remove Rotating Stand
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.1.4         Install Rotating Stand
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.2           Acceptor Assemblies

14.6.2.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.2.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.3           Canopy Push Rode
                 Assemblies
14.6.3.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 111                                                                                    Attachment 14
                                                                                                                                                     F-35 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
14.6.3.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.4           Retainer Assemblies

14.6.4.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.4.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.5           TRS Handle-Manifold
                 Rapid Deflagrating Cord
                 Transfer Line (RDCTL)
14.6.5.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.5.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.6           L/H Donor -Manifold
                 Rapid Deflagrating Cord
                 Transfer Line (RDCTL)
14.6.6.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.6.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.7           R/H Donor -Manifold
                 Rapid Deflagrating Cord
                 Transfer Line (RDCTL)
14.6.7.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.7.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.8           Transparency Removal
                 System Handle (TRS)
14.6.8.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.8.2         Install
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.9           Flexible Linar Shape
                 Charge (FLSC)                                                                                             -         -        -       -        -

14.6.9.1         Remove
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.9.2         Repair
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 112                                                                                    Attachment 14
                                                                                                                                                     F-35 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
14.6.9.3         Install (New Canopy)
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.9.4         Install (Replacement)
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.6.9.5         Inspect
                                                         *                                                                 -         -        -       -        -

14.7             Support Equipment
                 TR: JTD, 35 series
                 Technical Orders, AFI's
14.7.1           Canopy Brace

14.7.1.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.1.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.2           Canopy Sling

14.7.2.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.2.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.3           Canopy Slide

14.7.3.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.3.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.4           Canopy Maintenance
                 Fixture
14.7.4.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.4.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.5           MK6 No Volt Tester

14.7.5.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.5.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.6           Seat Actuator Drive Set
                 (Power Supply)


                                                                 113                                                                                    Attachment 14
                                                                                                                                                     F-35 AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                                   CFETP 2A6X3, 1 April 2014
                                                  2.Core         3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                  Tasks                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                        Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A       B          A        B          C          D           E           A           B            C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill    5 Skill Level    7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                         Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level     Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (1)      (2)     (1)      (2)
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    Course   CDC     Course   CDC
14.7.6.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.6.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.7           Seat Maintenance Dolly

14.7.7.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.7.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.8           Seat Sling

14.7.8.1         Use
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -

14.7.8.2         Inspect
                                                                                                                           -         -        -       -        -




                                                                 114                                                                                    Attachment 14
                                                                                                                                                     F-35 AIRCRAFT
