DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                              CFETP 2A8X2X
Headquarters US Air Force                                                   Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20030-1030                                                  1 March 2014



                              AFSC 2A8X2X

     MOBILITY AIR FORCES (MAF)
 INTEGRATED INSTRUMENT AND FLIGHT
         CONTROL SYSTEMS




       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION

                AND TRAINING PLAN
  ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
              www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
This Page Intentionally Blank




              2
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
          MAF INTEGRATED INSTRUMENT AND FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
                                AFSC 2A8X2X

                                                                     Table of Contents
                                                                                                                                                                         Page

Preface ...................................................................................................................................................................... 4

Abbreviations/Terms Explained............................................................................................................................. 5

PART I
 Section A - General Information .......................................................................................................................... 8
   Purpose of the CFETP
   Use of the CFETP
   Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

   Section B - Career Progression and Information ................................................................................................ 9
     Specialty Descriptions
     Career Skill Progression
         Apprentice      (3) Level
         Journeyman      (5) Level
         Craftsman       (7) Level
         Superintendent (9) Level
     Training Decisions
     Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities
     Career Field Path
     Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

   Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements .................................................................................................... 14
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification Requirements
     Training Sources
         Apprentice Level Training
         Journeyman Level Training
         Craftsman Level Training
         Superintendent Level Training

   Section D - Resource Constraints ......................................................................................................................... 15

   Section E - Transitional Training Guide ............................................................................................................. 15

PART II
 Section A - Specialty Training Standard .............................................................................................................. 16

   Section B - 3-Level Course Training .................................................................................................................... 17

   Section C - Support Materials............................................................................................................................... 18

   Section D - Training Course Index ...................................................................................................................... 18

   Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements ...................................................................................................... 20

OPR: 365 TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ USAF/A4LF (CMSgt Tony Turner)
Supersedes: CFETP 2A5X3B, 1 Nov 2006
Pages: 122


                                                                                     3
     MAF INTEGRATED INSTRUMENT AND FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                           AFSC 2A8X2X

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education
and training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for 2A8X2X, MAF Integrated
Instruments and Flight Control Systems specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear
career path to success and instills rigor in all aspects of career field training. NOTE:
Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification
training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage, and
control training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section
A explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience,
training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints to accomplishing this plan,
such as funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training
plans for the career field.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard
(STS) and includes duties, tasks, and technical references to support training. Air Education
and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, core task and correspondence course
requirements. Section B provides an explanation of AETC 3-Level Course Training. Section
C identifies available proficiency training support materials. Section D identifies the
Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support
training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime
course/core task, and Career Development Course (CDC) requirements. Section E identifies
MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training
required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will
use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this
plan.




                                               4
                         ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training: Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified in their
Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the
career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS): A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task
qualifications. The tasks of AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty
position.

Bridge Course: A formal or informal course, which allows the individual to expand their
knowledge in another area of expertise.

Career Development Course (CDC): Self-study correspondence course to provide Airmen
with fundamental knowledge of their AFS.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP): A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career
field. It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to
make career field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is
budget defensible.

Certification: A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official: A person authorized by appropriate commander to determine an
individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training: This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade
requirements and has an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task: Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements for everyone
within an AFSC, regardless of duty position.

Course Training Standard (CTS): A formal course document that identifies in board terms
the training members will receive in a specific course.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST): A mix of formal training (technical school) and
informal training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a
specialty.

Exportable Training: Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive
video, or other necessary means to supplement training.

Go/No Go Level: In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill,
knowledge and experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without
assistance, or not.


                                                5
Field Technical Training (Type 4): Special or regular on-site training conducted by a
training detachment (TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training: A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level
AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD): A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the
knowledge and skills essential for successful job performance.

Maintenance Information System (MIS): Systems and applications that support and enable
maintenance business processes. Used to document maintenance actions. Provides
maintenance supervisors with products to evaluate organizational effectiveness and to aid in
decision-making processes at all levels.

Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL): Monitors overall maintenance and supply interface,
resolves supply support problems, and coordinates supply-related training needs.

Master Task Listing (MTL): Document maintained within the work-center that identifies
all tasks performed in a work-center. This includes core, critical position qualification and
wartime tasks. This document can be automated.

Master Training Plan (MTP): A comprehensive work-center training plan that may include
MTLs QTPs, AFJQS, CFETP, task breakdowns, commercial publications and any other
document that supports training.

Mobile Training Team (MTT): Instructors, trainers, training aids and operational
equipment that formal schools send to bases or operating locations used to perform formal
training.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR): A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational analysis of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT): Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used
to certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Position Qualification Training: Training designed to qualify an airman in a specific
position and is accomplished after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training: Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced
training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and
knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT): Actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and
after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge
training required to do the job.



                                                6
Resource Constraints: Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS): An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know
on the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of
the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career
Development Courses, and exportable courses.

Standard: An exact value, a physical entity, or abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent, to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities. Standards are used to establish practices or procedures and to evaluate
results.

Supplemental Training: Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to
required initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly
assigned equipment, methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier: See Certification Official

Training Detachment (TD): An AETC detachment that provides maintenance oriented
technical training, at an operational location, on specific systems and their aerospace ground
equipment. A TD aims to qualify personnel on new equipment or in new techniques and
procedures, maintain proficiency and increase skill and knowledge, acquaint personnel with
specific systems, and keep personnel aware of changing concepts and requirements.

Training Setting: The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school,
on-the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.)

Upgrade Training (UGT): A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and
CDCs required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW): A forum, co-chaired by the AF Career Field
Manager and Training Pipeline Manager consisting of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code
(AFSC) functional managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel
that determine career ladder training requirements.




                                               7
PART I

Section A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for the
AFCFM, MFMs, commanders, training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop,
manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. The plan
outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should receive in order to develop and
progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification,
advanced and proficiency training. The CFETP also:

1.1. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the
training delivery method.

1.2. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
career field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to
ensure comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the
specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, field, and
exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part
II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for
obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT,
resident training, contract training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM developed
training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not
duplicate other available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this
plan. The list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
Also, the AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and
accuracy. MFMs and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate career field
training requirements.




                                                8
Section B - CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Specialty Shreds:
Suffix Portion of AFS to Which Related
A..............................................................C-5
B..............................................................C-17
C..............................................................C-130 (except SOF/PR & EC-130)
D..............................................................C-21/27/37/39/40**
Above shreds drop at 7-level
E…………………………………………7-Level Cargo IFCS

F…………………………………………KC-10
G………………………………………...KC-135
H………………………………………...KC-46
Above shreds drop at 7-level
J………………………………………….7-Level Tanker IFCS

**Avionics maintainers for the C-40 Flying Crew Chief program at Ramstein and Hickam
may be directly hired from locally assigned avionics AFSCs or through EQUAL Plus hiring
from all heavy avionics AFSCs (2A2XX, 2A8XX and 2A9XX). When they are hired into
the position their DAFSC will become the 2A8X2D AFSC. Upon release from C-40 duty
they will revert back to their original PAFSC.

4.2. Specialty Summary. Analyzes malfunctions, inspects, removes, maintains, and
installs integrated avionics systems. Performs and supervises avionics maintenance and
general aircraft servicing and handling. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 119800.

4.2.1. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1.1. MAF Integrated and Flight Control Systems Apprentice and Journeyman.
Operates and maintains instrument and flight control systems on C-5, C-17, C-130 (except
SOF/PR and EC-130), C-21/27/37/39/40, KC-10, KC-135, and KC-46 aircraft. Analyzes
equipment operating characteristics to isolate malfunctions in avionics systems, integrated
test systems built-in-test (BIT), multiplexed data bus systems, recording systems, video
display systems, flight instruments, mission computer systems, inertial navigation systems
(INS), global positioning system, traffic collision avoidance system navigation systems,
aircraft indicating systems, and flight formation systems. Removes, installs, checks, and
repairs avionics systems and line replaceable units (LRU). Diagnoses malfunctions using
technical orders, schematics, wiring diagrams, integrated test systems and other test
equipment. Removes, replaces, and repairs faulty system wiring, electrical connectors, and
multi-conductor cables. Modifies avionics systems according to technical publications.
Updates operational logs, inspection records, aircraft forms, and automated maintenance
systems. Performs and supervises alignment, calibration, and boresight of avionics systems.
Uploads ground maintenance and operational software. Performs off-equipment
maintenance on selected avionics LRUs and maintains peculiar support equipment (SE).
Inspects and evaluates aircraft maintenance activities. Inspects and verifies operational status
and configuration of avionics systems and software. Records and ensures validity of entries

                                                         9
into maintenance data collection and inspection systems. Resolves and assists units in solving
maintenance and supply problems. Interprets and recommends corrective action to inspection
findings. Prepares aircraft for low altitude profiles, precision air drop. Plans, organizes and
directs aircraft maintenance activities. Establishes methods and performance standards.
Analyzes reports and maintenance plans. Directs operation and modification of standard
operating procedures. Establishes priorities. Evaluates activities for compliance with
directives. Supervises and assists in aircraft ground servicing, and launch/recovery
operations. Reviews maintenance data collection summaries to determine trends and
production effectiveness.

5. Career Skill Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice
to the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish
its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop,
manage and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the
CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their
career. Use Table 8.1, Enlisted Career Path, in conjunction with information below to
manage career skill progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3-level). Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work
with a trainer to enhance their knowledge and skills. The apprentice will enter UGT using
the CDC, and QT to progress in the career field. Minimum training times will be a total of
12 months for normal UGT and 9 months for retrainees. Once task certified, a trainee may
perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for appointment as unit
trainers after completion of a formal trainer course.

5.2. Journeyman (5-level). Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and
skill in troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. Five-levels may be assigned
job positions such as quality assurance and various staff positions. After having 48 months
in the Air Force, 5-levels will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) to enhance their
Professional Military Education (PME). Five-levels will be considered for appointment as
unit trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion
testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a Community College
of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7-level). A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and
management positions such as shift leader, element NCOIC, flight/section chief, and task
certifier. They are the primary trainers of those trainees working toward advancement to the
5- and 7-skill levels. They can also be assigned to work in staff positions. Craftsmen should
take courses to obtain added knowledge on management of resources and personnel.
Minimum training times for UGT to the craftsman 7-skill level will be a total of 12 months
for normal UGT and 6 months for retrainees. Continued academic education through CCAF
and higher degree programs is encouraged. In addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals
will complete the Noncommissioned Officer Academy and MSgt selects are highly
encouraged to complete the Senior NCO Academy by correspondence.

5.4. Superintendent (9-level). Before attaining the 9-skill level, individuals must be
SMSgt. A 9-skill level is expected to fill positions such as flight chief, production supervisor,
and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower,

                                               10
resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education.
Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are also
recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the MAF Integrated Instrument
and Flight Control Systems Career Field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where,
and how to meet these training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to
reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. Refer to
paragraph 10 of this document for a complete list of specialty qualification requirements.

7. Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities. Higher education and
advanced certification is a personal choice that is encouraged for the professional
development of the entire Enlisted Force. Listed below are some current opportunities:

7.1. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in
CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training (BMT). CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate
degree program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. CCAF offers the CCAF Instructor Certification
(CIC) Program for qualified instructors who teach CCAF collegiate-level credit awarding
courses at a CCAF affiliated school. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes the
instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to
teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching
experience. Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian and other service instructors are eligible for
this certification. The CIC Program replaced the CCAF Occupational Instructor Certification
(OIC) Program, which officially closed on 1 January 2011.

7.1.2. Professional Manager Certification (PMC) Program. CCAF offers the PMC for
qualified senior Air Force enlisted personnel who have demonstrated an advanced level of
professional accomplishment. The purpose of the certification is to recognize the
individual’s outstanding education and training required to lead and manage Air Force
personnel and critical national defense assets. The certification also formally acknowledges
the individuals management qualifications and experience. Qualified Air Force enlisted
personnel are eligible for this certification. To learn more and enroll in the program, visit
CCAF’s website at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.1.3. FAA Airframe and Power Plant (A&P) Certification. CCAF offers the Air Force
A&P Certification Program for active duty, guard and reserve aircraft maintenance
technicians in specific AFSCs. The program is designed to bridge gaps between Air Force
education, training and experience and FAA eligibility requirements per Title 14, Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 65.77. The program benefits the Air Force by broadening
the skill sets and professional development of our technicians, producing a more skilled and
diverse aircraft maintenance professional. The program directly supports the mission of
CCAF in that FAA certification of our aircraft maintenance technicians enhances combat
readiness, contributes to recruiting and retention and supports career transition of highly
skilled technicians. To learn more and enroll in the program, visit CCAF’s website at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

                                               11
7.1.4. Other Certification Programs. CCAF is actively pursuing other licensure and
certification opportunities related to specific career fields. To learn more about other
certification opportunities visit CCAF’s website at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.2. Degree Requirements. All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:
                                                                                                               Semester Hours
Technical Education..................................................................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies .........................................................6
Physical Education ......................................................................................................4
General Education .....................................................................................................15
Program Electives .....................................................................................................15
     Technical Education - Leadership, Management, and Military
     Studies; or General Education
Total ..........................................................................................................................64

7.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours). Credits earned through technical
courses taken from AETC, including technical training and Field Training Detachment
(FTD) classes.

7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours). Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.

7.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours). This requirement is satisfied by
completion of Basic Military Training.

7.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours). Applicable courses must meet the criteria
for application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement
with the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the
CCAF General Catalog.

7.2.5. Program Electives (15 Semester Hours). Satisfied with applicable Technical
Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects
and courses, including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six
semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this
program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the
Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.3. AETC Instructor Requirements. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that
is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor must possess as a
minimum an associate degree or should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty
Assignment (SDA) requires an AETC instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within
one year of completion (45 semester hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain
accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                                12
    8. Career Field Path.

    8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2AXXX Air Force
    Specialty.

                                        Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                       Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                  Rank      Average         Earliest     High Year Of Tenure
                                                                Sew-On         Sew-On               (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)          Amn       6 months
                                                     A1C      16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                Amn       6 months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.             A1C      16 months
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for           SrA        3 years       28 months            8 Years
  retrainees.
- Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service
  or be a SSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                     Trainer                                                   Certifier
- Qualified and certified to perform the task to   - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and certified
  be trained.                                        to perform the task being certified
- Must attend formal OJT Trainer Course            - Attend formal OJT Trainer Course
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                     positions, units and/or work centers with specialized
                                                     training standardization and certification requirements.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                 SSgt      5.1 years        3 years            15 Years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
- Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for
  retrainees.
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
  mission design aircraft.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
- Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)               TSgt     11.1 years        5 years            20 Years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt     MSgt     16.8 years        8 years            24 Years
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a MSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)           SMSgt      21 years        11 years            26 Years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
Chief Leadership Course                            CMSgt       24 years        14 years            30 Years
- CMSgt or CMSgt selectee



                                                        13
Section C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for
entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The specific tasks and knowledge training
requirements are identified in the STS, Part II, Section A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements for MAF Integrated Instrument and Flight
Control Systems (ref. AFECD found on the AFPC website).

10.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: interpreting and applying mechanical,
wiring, and electronic circuit diagrams; electronic, micro-processor, data bus, and mechanical
principles theory and application; theory of flight; gyros, synchros, indicators, memory
storage devices, antennas, servomechanisms, electromechanical, dependent navigation aids,
electro hydraulic, and electro optical devices; inertial and radar navigation, electronic
countermeasure transmitters and receivers; lasers, infrared/ultraviolet receivers; optics,
automatic flight controls, instruments, multiplexing, fire control, video display, and digital
computer systems working principles; subsystem tie-in between integrated avionics systems;
using and interpreting testing and measuring devices; principles of motion and power
transmission by fluid, mechanical and electrical means; and concepts and application of
maintenance directives.

10.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
physics, computers, and mathematics is desirable.

10.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.3.1. 2A832. Completion of the applicable basic avionic systems courses is mandatory.

10.3.2. 2A852. Requirements for the Journeyman level require completion of the 5-level
CDC and qualification on the core tasks specified in the STS.

10.3.3. 2A872. Requirements for the Craftsman level require completion of the 7-level
CDC (2AX7X), completion of Advanced Wiring Maintenance Course J4AMP3000 A48A,
PDS ZIZ (per MMCL as it becomes available at the local FTD) and qualification on the core
tasks specified in the STS.

10.3.4. 2A590. No formal training requirements established.

10.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC
indicated:

10.4.1. 2A852. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A832, experience in maintaining
MAF Integrated Instrument and Flight Control systems and associated subsystems,
inspecting components, troubleshooting and correcting system malfunctions, and repairing
and replacing system components. Journeymen perform operational checks, component
repair, and use and maintenance of test and support equipment.


                                              14
10.4.2. 2A872. Qualification in and possession of AFS 2A852 experience performing or
supervising functions such as inspection, maintaining, and troubleshooting MAF Integrated
Instrument and Flight Control systems maintaining supplies and equipment, and
administrative duties.

10.4.3. 2A590. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A872 is mandatory. Also,
experience is mandatory managing or directing functions such as inspecting or maintaining
aircraft, helicopters, or avionics systems

10.5. Other.

10.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards.
Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment.

10.5.2. Must maintain an Air Force Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2,
Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

10.5.3. For award and retention of AFSCs 2A8X2X, requires completion of a current
National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI
31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an
interim NACLC has been granted according to AFI 31-501

10.6. Training Sources and Resources. The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base,
and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements. OJT will be used to
provide training and qualification on the core tasks identified in one MDS aircraft STS.

10.7. Implementation. The 3 level is awarded upon graduation from the applicable
apprentice course. 5 and 7 Upgrade training will be completed using the core tasks and the
formal CDCs. The 9-skill level is awarded upon promotion to SMSgt.

Section D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

11. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which
preclude optimum and desired training from being developed or conducted, including
information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint
and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are included.
Also included in this section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target
completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated
annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

13. Journeyman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

14. Craftsman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

Section E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE

                                               15
15. There are no transitional requirements. This area is reserved.
PART II

Section A – SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD (STS)

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education
and Training Command (AETC) once all training resources are funded.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, and AFI 36-2232 this STS:

2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common
tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the
3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

2.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training
requirements. For upgrade training only those tasks designated as core requirements by the
AFCFM (by an asterisk in column 2) need to be trained and certified. MAJCOM Functional
Managers, commanders, and supervisors may designate additional critical tasks for duty
position qualification, as necessary. When designated, certify the duty position critical tasks
using normal task certification procedures. Exemptions:

2.2.1. Core tasks that are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not
required for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training)

2.2.2. For units with more than one mission design aircraft, upgrade trainees need only
complete core tasks on a single mission design. MFMs, unit commanders, and/or supervisors
may require trainees to complete core task training on additional mission design aircraft, if
desired. If some of these core tasks involve training in another unit on base, trainees must
still complete all core tasks relevant to at least one mission design aircraft. All units are
bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate core task trainees from
other units.

2.2.3. Units that use the G081 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete
Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) or Integrated Maintenance Data System
(IMDS) Computer Based Training (CBT) core tasks. Units that use CAMS/IMDS do not
need to complete G081 CBT core tasks.

2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use CAMS/IMDS/G081 to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or completed date.

2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

2.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

                                               16
2.6. Job Qualification Standard. The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for
on-the-job training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used
according to AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the
go/no go level. "Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets
local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the
following requirements apply:

2.6.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201.
Use of Part II, attachments one, two, three, and at least one of attachments four through
twenty-one is required in individual training records.

2.6.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous
CFETPs are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this
CFETP STS is mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify
all past and current qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training
IAW AFI 36-2201.

2.7. STS. A guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF
Occupational Measurement Squadron, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience
in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test
development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions
are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are
in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National
Guard or Air Force Reserve.

3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality
of training AETC graduates received. A 782 TRG Customer Service Information Line
(CSIL) is available for supervisors to identify a graduate’s training concerns on
tasks/knowledge items listed in this STS. Please reference specific STS line items and
address your comments to: 782CSIL@us.af.mil or call the CSIL at DSN 736-2574 anytime.




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                     JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt General, USAF
                                             DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support




                                             17
Section B – 3-LEVEL COURSE OBJECTIVES

4. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the
technical school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written
instruction for the student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully
complete training on each task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and
standard that states what is expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting
in which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The behavior is the
observable portion of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the
level of performance that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained
(i.e. “with no more than two instructor assists”).

5. Objective Measurement. Each objective uses letter code(s) to identify how it is
measured. All objectives using the PC code indicate a progress check is used to measure
subject or task knowledge. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure
the subject or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject
or task knowledge progress check and a separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test.

6. Objective Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70% to 72%. Standards
for performance objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the
individual progress check checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each
student’s progress, on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the
progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until
satisfactory performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to
taking the written test.

7. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section A of
this CFETP for an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to
the ‘2b’ proficiency level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does
need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also
determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.

Section C – SUPPORT MATERIAL

8. There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved

Section D – TRAINING COURSE INDEX

9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the
2A8X2X Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career
field training programs. For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR
at:

                                               18
365 TRS/TRR
609 9th Ave, Rm 135
Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2335
DSN 736-7908




                              19
10. Air Force In-Resident Courses. The following courses are required for 3-level
training, and are identified per airframe. Students are required to first attend Avionics
Fundamentals, located at Keesler AFB, followed by their specific avionics training course,
located at Sheppard AFB. For further course information go to the ETCA website at:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.

Airframe              Course Number                 Course Title
                      E3AQR2A832A004A               Avionic Fundamentals
        C-5
                      J3ABR2A832A004A               MAF Integrated Inst/Flt Ctrl Sys Apprentice
                      E3AQR2A832B007A               Avionic Fundamentals
       C-17
                      J3ABR2A832B007A               MAF Integrated Inst/Flt Ctrl Sys Apprentice
                      E3AQR2A832C017A               Avionic Fundamentals
       C-130
                      J3ABR2A832C017A               MAF Integrated Inst/Flt Ctrl Sys Apprentice
                      E3AQR2A832D018A               Avionic Fundamentals
 C-21/27/37/39/40
                      J3ABR2A832D018A               MAF Integrated Inst/Flt Ctrl Sys Apprentice
                      E3AQR2A832F031A               Avionic Fundamentals
      KC-10
                      J3ABR2A832F031A               MAF Integrated Inst/Flt Ctrl Sys Apprentice
                      E3AQR2A832G018A               Avionic Fundamentals
      KC-135
                      J3ABR2A832G018A               MAF Integrated Inst/Flt Ctrl Sys Apprentice

11. AFIADL. http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

COURSE NO.           COURSE TITLE                                                   USER
CDC 2A852X           Integrated Instrument and Flight Control Systems               AF
                     Journeyman
CDC 2AX7X            Aerospace Maintenance Systems Craftsman                        AF

12. Exportable Courses. None.

For further information on exportable courses, contact the OPRs at:

       367 TRSS
       6058 Aspen Ave
       Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
       DSN 777-7830/8741

Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from or are under development by, 367
TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB, Utah and 982 MXS/TSU at Sheppard AFB, Texas.

For further information contact the OPRs at:

    367 TRSS                                                  982 MXS/LGMS
    6058 Aspen Ave                                            Instructional Technology Unit
    Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805                                   912 I Ave, Ste 4
    DSN 777-7830/8741                                         Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334
                                                              DSN 736-3834

                                               20
13. Training Detachment (TD) Courses. For further information on the TD courses, visit
the ETCA website at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ or contact the OPRs at:

      373 TRS
      912 I Ave, Suite 4
      Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2362
      DSN 736-4745

Section E - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS. There are no mandatory MAJCOM
unique requirements for 2A8X2X.

14. For MAJCOM unique requirements, refer to the MAJCOM mandatory course lists:

      HQ AMC/A4MMT
      402 Scott Drive Unit 2A2
      Scott AFB, IL 62225-5308
      DSN 779-4787
      SOF/PR MCL




11 Attachments:
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. General 2A8X2X Training Requirements (Mandatory)
3. C-5 Training Requirements (Mandatory for C-5 personnel)
4. C-17 Training Requirements (Mandatory for C-17 personnel)
5. C-130 Training Requirements (Mandatory for C-130 personnel) (Exception: EC-130
    and SOF/PR)
6. C-21, C-27, C-37, C-39 and C-40 Training Requirements (Mandatory for C-
    21/27/37/39/40 personnel)
7. KC-10 Training Requirements (Mandatory for KC-10 personnel)
8. KC-135 Training Requirements (Mandatory for KC-135 personnel)
9. Reserved for KC-46
10. Avionics Fundamental Training Requirements (Mandatory)
11. 2AX7X CDC Training Requirements (Mandatory for 7-level upgrade)
Note: Use of at least one of attachments three through nine is required.




                                          21
                                                                 Attachment 1

This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee:
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                             Initials (Written)                       SSAN (last 4 only)

                                          Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                        N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I


                                                     QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale          Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                                   IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how
                                      1
                                                   to do most of the task.)
           Task                                    IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest
                                      2
                                                   parts.)
       Performance                    3            IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
          Levels                                   IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or
                                      4
                                                   show others how to do the task.)
                                      a            KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. )
         *Task                        b            KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. )
       Knowledge                                   KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and
                                      c
                                                   why each step is needed.)
          Levels                      d            KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                                      A            KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
        **Subject                                  KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles
                                      B
                                                   about the subject.)
       Knowledge                                   KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the
                                      C
                                                   subject.)
          Levels                                   KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                                      D
                                                   subject.)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)
**A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
/ This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given/reduced due to limitations in resources. (3c/b, 2/b/b, 3c/-,
etc.)

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency or knowledge code are trained during wartime.
                                                                                                                        Attachment 1



                                                                        22
                                                    C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                       4. Proficiency Codes
                                                          2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                           A         B       C
                                                            A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level     Level
                                                                              Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                          5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                               Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

Attachment 2 – General Training Requirements
This general training requirements section is used to show necessary changes to the individual CFETP STS line items, for all the 2A8X2
shreds, in order to have the same level requirements across the shreds.
  NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A8X2X048X, MAF Integrated Instrument and Flight Control Systems Apprentice, will use
             representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
             general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
             the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
             identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
  NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
  NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
  NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
  NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
             not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
             Attachment is waived.
  NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
             736-7908
2 CFETP 2A8X2A – INSTRUMENT and
    FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
2.1 CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
      (COMMON)
2.1.1 Progression in Career Ladder 2A8X2A                                                                                               -         -          -
       TR: AFI 36-2108 / AFVA 39-1
2.1.2 Duties and Responsibilities of 2A8X2A                                                                                             A         -          -
       Personnel
       TR: AFMAN 36-2108
2.2 SECURITY (COMMON)
2.2.1 Information Security
       TR: AFI-31-401 / AFI 31-501 /
       AFPD 31- 4 / AFPD 31-5, Applicable
       directives
2.2.1.1 Classification of Information                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.2.1.2 Prevention of Security Violations                                                                                               -         -          -
2.2.1.3 Access to Classified Information                                                                                                -         -          -
2.2.1.4 Use Security Classification Guide                                                                                               a         B          -
2.2.2 Physical Security
       TR: AFPD 31-1, Army Regulation 190- 16
2.2.2.1 Control of Restricted Areas                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.2.2.2 Security Alert Reporting                                                                                                        -         -          -
2.2.2.3 Cabinet, Safe and Room Security Forms                                                                                           A         -          -
2.2.2.4 Proper Handling of Classified Materials /                                                                                       -         -          -
         Controlled Cryptographic Item (CCI)
2.2.3 Communications Security (COMSEC)
       TR: AFI 31-401/ DOD 5200.1-4/ AFPD
        33-2
2.2.3.1 COMSEC Education Program                                                                                                        -         -          -
2.2.4 Operations Security (OPSEC)
       TR: AFI 10-1101, AFPD 10-11,
       and applicable directives
2.2.4.1 Goals of OPSEC Program                                                                                                          -         -          -
2.2.4.2 Function of CILs (Critical Information                                                                                          -         -          -
          Lists)

                                                                       23
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.3 AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY and
      HEALTH (AFOSH) Safety Practices
2.3.1 RF Energy                                                                                                                  A         B          -
2.3.2 Noise                                                                                                                      A         B          -
2.3.3 Compressed Gases                                                                                                           A         B          -
2.3.4 Electrical Power                                                                                                           A         B          -
2.3.5 Hydraulic Power                                                                                                            A         B          -
2.3.6 Hazardous Liquids                                                                                                          A         B          -
2.3.7 Radioactive Parts and Materials                                                                                            A         -          -
2.3.8 Aircraft                                                                                                                   A         B          -
2.3.9 AGE                                                                                                                        -         -          -
2.3.10 Electrical Equipment                                                                                                      A         B          -
2.3.11 Beryllium / Copper Alloys                                                                                                 -         -          -
2.3.12 Lasers                                                                                                                    A         -          -
2.3.13 Composites                                                                                                                A         -          -
2.3.14 CRTs                                                                                                                      A         -          -
2.3.15 Lifting Devices                                                                                                           A         -          -
2.3.16 Munitions Laden Aircraft                                                                                                  -         -          -
2.3.17 FOD Prevention                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.3.18 Fall Protection/ Restraints                                                                                               A         -          -
2.3.19 AF Nuclear Surety Program                                                                                                 -         -          -
2.4 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS/ WASTE
      HANDLING ACCORDING TO
      ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
      (COMMON)
      TR: AFI-23-504, AFI 32-7042,
      AFPAM 32-7043, Applicable Federal
      Codes, EPA State Regulations
2.4.1 Types of Hazardous Material/ Fluids                                                                                        A         -          -
2.4.2 Handling Procedures                                                                                                        A         -          -
2.4.3 Storage and Labeling                                                                                                       A         -          -
2.4.4 Proper Disposal                                                                                                            A         -          -
2.4.5 Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)                                                                                          B         -          -
2.4.6 Report Hazardous Material Spills                                                                                           -         -          -
2.5 MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
      (COMMON)
      TR: AFI-21-101
2.5.1 Basic Functions and Responsibilities of                                                                                    -         B          -
        the Maintenance Complex
        TR: AFI 21-101
2.5.2 Maintenance Data Collection                                                                                                A         B          -
2.5.3 Maintenance Information System                                                                                             A         B          -
2.5.4 Maintenance Resource Management                                                                                            A         -          -
2.5.5 Logistics / Resource Maintenance
       Management
2.5.5.1 Logistics Management                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.5.5.2 Resource Management                                                                                                      -         -          -

                                                                24
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.5.5.3 Standard Publication Use                                                                                                   -         A          -
2.5.5.4 Aircraft Maintenance Management                                                                                            -         -          -
         Information Systems
         (CEMS, RAMPOD, PAMS, etc)
2.5.5.5 SMR Codes                                                                                                                  -         -          -
2.5.5.6 Modification Proposals (AF Form 1067)                                                                                      -         -          -
2.5.5.7 Aircraft / Equipment Status Monitoring                                                                                     -         -          -
2.5.5.8 Compliance and Standardization                                                                                             -         -          -
         Requirements Listing
2.5.5.9 Maintenance Performance Indicators                                                                                         -         -          -
         (MPI) Relationships (repeat / recur, fix,
         break, cannibalization rates, etc.)
2.5.5.10 Maintenance Incident Investigation and                                                                                    -         -          -
         Prevention
2.5.5.11 Minimum Essential Systems Lists                                                                                           -         -          -
         (MESL)
2.5.5.12 Warranty Program                                                                                                          -         -          -
2.5.5.13 TMDE Program                                                                                                              -         -          -
2.5.5.14 Workcenter Responsibilities                                                                                               -         -          -
2.5.5.15 IDEA Program                                                                                                              -         -          -
2.5.5.16 Repair Cycle Asset Program                                                                                                A         -          -
2.5.5.17 Resource Protection                                                                                                       -         -          -
2.5.5.18 Status of Resources and Training                                                                                          -         -          -
          (SORTS)
2.5.6    Personnel Duties/ Responsibilities
2.5.6.1 Expediter                                                                                                                  -         -          -
2.5.6.2 Production Supervisor                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.5.6.3 Flight Chief                                                                                                               -         -          -
2.6 MAINTENANCE, INSPECTION
      SYSTEMS & FORMS (COMMON)
      TR: AFI-21-101, OO-20 series technical
      orders
2.6.1 Maintenance Systems                                                                                                          -         -          -
2.6.2 Aircraft Inspection Systems                                                                                                  -         A          -
2.6.3 Maintenance Data Collection Forms                                                                                            B         -          -
2.6.4 Historical Records                                                                                                           -         -          -
2.6.5 Status Reports                                                                                                               -         -          -
2.6.6 Configuration Management (aircraft /                                                                                         -         -          -
        equipment records)
2.6.7 Operate MIS (IMDS, GO81, ECSS)
        TR: 00-20-2
2.6.7.1 Create Discrepancy                                                                                                        2b         -          -
2.6.7.2 Schedule Discrepancy                                                                                                      2b         -          -
2.6.7.3 Defer Discrepancy                                                                                                         2b         -          -
2.6.7.4 Transfer Discrepancy                                                                                                      2b         -          -
2.6.7.5 Sign-Off Discrepancy                                                                                                      2b         -          -
2.6.7.6 In-Progress Inspection (IPI)                                                                                               -         -          -

                                                                  25
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.6.7.7  Supply Transactions                                                                                                    2b         -          -
2.6.7.8  Maintenance / Supervision Transactions                                                                                  -         -          -
2.6.7.9  Use Work Center Discrepancy Screen                                                                                      -         -          -
2.6.7.10  Run Aircraft History
2.6.7.11 Complete IMDS Course J6ANU00066-                                                                                        -         -          -
         046 or J6ANU00066-047
2.6.7.12 Complete IMDS for Supervisors Course                                                                                    -         -          -
         J6ANU00066-048
2.6.8 Material Deficiency Reporting System
       TR: 00-35D-54
2.6.8.1 Deficiency Reporting System                                                                                              -         B          -
2.6.8.2 Product Quality Deficiency Report                                                                                        -         A          -
2.6.9 Use Aircraft / Equipment Maintenance
       Forms
       TR: 00-20-1
2.6.9.1 781A                                         *                                                                          2b         A          -
2.6.9.2 781B                                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.6.9.3 781C                                                                                                                    2b         A          -
2.6.9.4 781D                                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.6.9.5 781F                                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.6.9.6 781H                                                                                                                    2b         A          -
2.6.9.7 781J                                                                                                                     -         A          -
2.6.9.8 781K                                         *                                                                          2b         A          -
2.6.9.9 781M                                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.6.9.10 AFTO Form 244 / 245                         *                                                                          2b         A          -
2.6.9.11 AF Form 1492 - Warning Tags                 *                                                                          2b         A          -
2.7 SUPERVISION (COMMON)
      TR: AFI 36-2108/ AFI 36-2201
2.7.1 Orient New Personnel                                                                                                       -         -          -
2.7.2 Assign Personnel to Work Assignments                                                                                       -         -          -
2.7.3 Plan Work Assignments and Priorities                                                                                       -         -          -
2.7.4 Schedule Work Assignments and Priorities                                                                                   -         -          -
2.7.5 Coordinate Work Assignments                                                                                                -         -          -
       TR: AFI 36-2123/ AFR 21-101/ AFR 21-
        144/ applicable Command Directives
2.7.6 Establish
       TR: AFI 21-101/ AFR 21-114/ and
        applicable command directives
2.7.6.1 Work Methods                                                                                                             -         -          -
2.7.6.2 Controls                                                                                                                 -         -          -
2.7.6.3 Performance Standards                                                                                                    -         -          -
2.7.7 Evaluate Work Performance of                                                                                               -         -          -
        Subordinate Personnel
2.7.8 Help Resolve Technical Problems for                                                                                        -         -          -
        Subordinate Personnel
2.7.9 Initiate Actions to Correct Substandard                                                                                    -         -          -
       Performance

                                                                26
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

       TR: applicable AFI 36-Series Instructions
2.7.10 Supervise
       TR: applicable AFI 36-Series Instructions
2.7.10.1 Maintenance Actions                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.7.10.2 Inspection Actions                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.7.11 Justify
       TR: AFI 21-101, 21-114
2.7.11.1 Personnel Manning Requirements                                                                                          -         -          -
2.7.11.2 Equipment Authorizations                                                                                                -         -          -
2.7.12 Statement of Charges                                                                                                      -         -          -
        TR: AFMAN 23-220, AFMAN 177-11/
        DOD 7200.1M
2.7.13 Perform Reports Of Survey                                                                                                 -         -          -
        TR: AFMAN 23-220/ DOD 7200.10M
2.7.14 Aircraft Scheduling
       TR: AFI 21-103
2.7.14.1 Utilize Flow Charts                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.7.14.2 Status Reporting                                                                                                        -         -          -
2.7.14.3 Flying / Maintenance Plan                                                                                               -         -          -
2.8 TRAINING (COMMON)
     TR: AFI 36-2201
2.8.1 Plan Training                                                                                                              -         -          -
2.8.2 Conduct Training
2.8.3 Evaluate Training                                                                                                          -         -          -
2.8.4 Maintain Training Records                                                                                                  -         -          -
2.8.5 Prepare JQS (AF Form 797s)                                                                                                 -         -          -
2.9 TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
      (COMMON)
     TR: Applicable 00-series technical orders
2.9.1 Scope and Application of Technical Order                                                                                   A         B          -
       System
2.9.2 Use Technical Orders                                                                                                      2b         -          -
2.9.3 Use Technical Order Indexes                                                                                                -         -          -
2.9.4 Electronic Technical Orders                                                                                               A          -          -
2.9.5 Technical Order Improvement /                                                                                             A          A          -
       Deficiency Report (AFTO Form 22)
2.9.6 Scope and Application of Computer                                                                                          A         A          -
       Program Identification Number (CPIN)
2.9.7 Use CPIN Compendium                                                                                                        -         -          -
2.9.8 Time Compliance Technical Orders                                                                                           -         A          -
2.9.9 Maintain Technical Order Files                                                                                             -         -          -
2.10 SUPPLY DISCIPLINE (COMMON)
       TR: AFI 21-101/ AFMAN 23-110/ ACCI
        21-101
2.10.1 Property Accountability and                                                                                               A         B          -
         Responsibility
2.10.2 Principles of Equipment Authorization                                                                                     -         -          -


                                                                27
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

         and Management
2.10.3   Special Requisitions                                                                                                    -         -          -
2.10.4   Back Order Verification                                                                                                 -         -          -
2.10.5   Equipment Condition Tags                                                                                               2b         -          -
2.10.6   Issue / Turn-In Requests                                                                                                -         -          -
2.10.7   Maintenance Supply Concept                                                                                              -         -          -
2.10.8   Supply Documents Management                                                                                             -         -          -
2.10.9   Equipment Account Management                                                                                            -         -          -
2.10.10  Priority System                                                                                                         -         -          -
2.10.11  Repair Cycle Assets                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.10.12  Standard Base Supply System (SBSS)                                                                                     A          -          -
2.10.13  FEDLOG / WEBFLIS                                                                                                       A          -          -
2.10.14  Land Mobile Radios, Pagers, and Cell                                                                                    -         -          -
         Phones
2.10.15 Depot Level Repairable                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.10.16 Classified Asset Handling                                                                                                A         A          -
2.10.17 Use Supply Products
2.10.17.1 D04 (Daily Document Register)                                                                                          -         -          -
2.10.17.2 D18 (Priority Monitor List)                                                                                            -         -          -
2.10.17.3 M30 (Due-Out Validation Listing)                                                                                       -         -          -
2.10.17.4 D23 (Due in From Maintenance                                                                                           -         -          -
            Listing)
2.11 FUNDAMENTALS OF ON-
       EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
       (COMMON)
       TR: Applicable aircraft -1 and -2 series
       technical orders
2.11.1 Use Common Tools                                                                                                         2b         -          -
         TR: AFI 91-408/ TO 00-25-234 /
         TO 32-1-1 / TO 32-1-2 / TO 32-1-101 /
         TO 32-1-211
2.11.2 Use Torque Indicating Devices                 *                                                                          2b         B          -
2.11.3 Use Tension Indicating Devices                *                                                                          1a         B          -
2.11.4 Protect Exposed Electrical Connectors                                                                                     a         -          -
          And Pressure Lines
2.11.5 Apply Range/ Slippage Marks                                                                                              2b         -          -
2.11.6 Protection Procedures when Handling                                                                                      B          -          -
         Electrostatic Sensitive Devices
2.11.7 Use of Panel Sealants/ Gaskets                *                                                                           -         A          -
2.11.8 Identify and Perform Corrosion Control                                                                                    a         -          -
2.11.9 Inventory and Inspect CTKs                    *                                                                          2b         -          -
2.11.10 Use Safetying Devices
           TR: 1-1-8
2.11.10.1 Safety Wire                                *                                                                          2b         -          -
2.11.10.2 Shear Wire                                                                                                            b          -          -
2.11.10.3 DMC Safe-T Cable                                                                                                       -         -          -
2.11.11 Remove and Install

                                                                28
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                  Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                       A         B       C
                                                        A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                                          Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                      5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

          TR: Applicable -2 Technical Orders
NOTE: Qualification on line items 2.11.11.1
through 2.11.11.10 qualifies the individual on all
similar system components throughout this
training record unless identified separately in the
specific system or in writing by the supervisor.
2.11.11.1 Shock Mounted                                 *                                                                          2b         -          -
2.11.11.2 Tray Mounted                                  *                                                                          2b         -          -
2.11.11.3 Rack Mounted                                  *                                                                          2b         -          -
2.11.11.4 Console Mounted                               *                                                                          2b         -          -
2.11.11.5 Aircraft Surface Mounted                      *                                                                          2b         -          -
2.11.11.6 Bezel Mounted                                                                                                            2b         -          -
2.11.11.7 Clamp Mounted                                                                                                            2b         -          -
2.11.11.8 Bulkhead Mounted                                                                                                          a         -          -
2.11.11.9 Equipment Mounted                             *                                                                           a         -          -
2.11.11.10 Minor Parts and Hardware (i.e. relay,        *                                                                           a         -          -
              switches, bulbs)
2.12 AIRCRAFT FAMILIARIZATION
        (COMMON)
        TR: Applicable aircraft technical orders
2.12.1 Major Structural Areas                                                                                                       A         A          -
2.12.2 Major Systems                                                                                                                A         A          -
2.12.3 Danger Areas                                                                                                                 B         B          -
2.12.4 Egress                                                                                                                       A         -          -
2.12.5 Practice Safe Entry Procedures on                                                                                            -         -          -
          Aircraft with Open Fuel Cells
2.12.6 Purpose of Radar Absorption Material                                                                                         A         -          -
          (RAM)
2.12.7 Inspect Aircraft Systems for Safe and                                                                                        -         -          -
           Secure Installation
2.12.8 Perform Aircraft Phase/ Isochronal                                                                                           -         -          -
          Inspection
2.12.9 Maintain Tool Crib                                                                                                           -         -          -
2.12.10 Debrief                                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.12.11 Dispatch Maintenance Crews                                                                                                  -         -          -
2.12.12 Ensure Aircraft is Safe for Simulated                                                                                       -         -          -
           Airborne Conditions
2.12.13 Perform Proximity Switch Control                                                                                            -         -          -
           Covering/ Uncovering
2.12.14 Use Powered AGE
2.12.14.1 Bleed Air Cart                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.12.14.2 Heater                                                                                                                    -         -          -
2.12.14.3 Air Conditioner                                                                                                           -         -          -
2.12.14.4 Light Cart                                                                                                                -         -          -
2.12.14.5 Air Compressor (MC-1A / MC-2A)                                                                                            -         -          -
2.12.14.6 Nitrogen Cart                                                                                                             -         -          -
2.12.14.7 Ground Power Unit                                                                                                         -         -          -


                                                                   29
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.12.14.8 Hydraulic Test Stand (Mule)                                                                                             -         -          -
2.12.14.9 Powered Man- Lift(s)                                                                                                    -         -          -
2.12.14.10 Motorized Maintenance Stand                                                                                            -         -          -
2.12.15 Use Non-Powered AGE
           TR: AFI 91-408/ applicable aircraft -4
           TOs
2.12.15.1 Maintenance Platform (B-1)                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.12.15.2 Maintenance Platform (B-2)                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.12.15.3 Maintenance Platform (B-4/B-5)                                                                                         2b         -          -
2.12.15.4 Maintenance Platform (B-7)                                                                                              -         -          -
2.12.15.5 Maintenance Platform (C-1)                                                                                              -         -          -
2.13 FUNDAMENTALS OF AVIONICS
       SYSTEMS MAINTENANCE
        (COMMON)
       TR: Applicable aircraft -1 and -2 series
       technical orders
2.13.1 Fundamentals of Flight                                                                                                     B         B          -
2.13.2 Nuclear Hardness Maintenance and                                                                                           A         -          -
         Inspections
         TR: TO JG-00-1, 1A-14
2.13.3 Source Of EMI
2.13.3.1 Identify                                                                                                                 A         A          -
2.13.3.2 Locate                                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.13.3.3 Eliminate                                                                                                                -         -          -
2.14 MULTIPLEX BUS (COMMON)
2.14.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        B         -          -
2.14.2 Data Bus Principles/Maintenance
         Practices
         TR: Applicable aircraft technical orders
2.14.2.1 Local Area Networks                                                                                                      A         B          -
2.14.3 MIL-STD-1553B                                                                                                              B         B          -
2.14.4 Fiber Optics                                                                                                               A         A          -
2.14.5 Troubleshoot Data Bus                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.15 GENERAL FLIGHT CONTROL
      SYSTEMS (COMMON)
2.15.1 Manual Flight Controls
2.15.1.1 Primary Flight Control
2.15.1.1.1 Theory of Operation
2.15.1.1.1.1 Fixed Wing                                                                                                           B         B          -
2.15.1.1.1.2 Rotary Wing                                                                                                          B         -          -
2.15.1.2 Secondary Flight Controls
2.15.1.2.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                            -         -          -
2.15.1.2.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B         B          -
2.15.1.2.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                              -         -          -
2.15.1.2.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.15.1.2.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -          -
2.15.1.2.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           -         -          -

                                                                 30
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.15.2   Flight Control Systems Tie-In/
         Integration
2.15.2.1 Mechanical                                                                                                              B         B          -
2.15.2.2 Electro-Mechanical                                                                                                      B         B          -
2.15.2.3 Hydro-Mechanical                                                                                                        B         B          -
2.15.2.4 Electro-Hydraulic                                                                                                       B         B          -
2.16 POSTION INDICATING/
      MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS
      (COMMON)
2.16.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                               -         -          -
2.16.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       A         A          -
2.16.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                 -         -          -
2.16.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                        -         -          -
2.16.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                -         -          -
2.16.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                              -         -          -
2.17 AUTOMATIC FLIGHT CONTROL
       SYSTEMS (COMMON)
2.17.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                               -         -          -
2.17.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      B          B          -
2.17.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                B          B          -
2.17.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                       2b         -          -
2.17.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                               2b         -          -
2.17.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.18 STABILITY AUGMENTATION
       (COMMON)
2.18.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                               -         -          -
2.18.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       B         B          -
2.18.3 System Tie-In / Integration                                                                                               B         B          -
2.18.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                        -         -          -
2.18.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                -         -          -
2.16.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                              -         -          -
2.19 FLIGHT CONTROL TRIM (COMMON)
2.19.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                               -         -          -
2.19.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       B         B          -
2.19.3 System Tie-in/Integration                                                                                                 A         -          -
2.19.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                        -         -          -
2.19.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                -         -          -
2.16.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                              -         -          -
2.20 GENERAL COMPUTER COMPLEX
       (COMMON)
2.20.1 Principles
2.20.1.1 Central Processing Unit                                                                                                 -         -          -
2.20.1.2 Memory Storage Devices                                                                                                  -         -          -
2.20.2 On-Board Diagnostic Systems
2.20.2.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.20.2.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     A         B          -

                                                                31
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.20.2.3   System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                             A         B          -
2.20.2.4   Perform Inspection                                                                                                    -         -          -
2.20.2.5   Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -          -
2.20.2.6   Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -          -
2.20.3    Controls and Displays
2.20.3.1   Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                           -         -          -
2.20.3.2   Theory of Operation                                                                                                  B          B          -
2.20.3.3   System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            A          -          -
2.20.3.4   Perform Inspection                                                                                                    -         -          -
2.20.3.5   Perform Operational Checks                                                                                           2b         -          -
2.20.3.6   Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -          -
2.20.4    Data Transfer System
2.20.4.1   Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                           -         -          -
2.20.4.2   Theory of Operation                                                                                                   B         B          -
2.20.4.3   System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                             A         -          -
2.20.4.4   Perform Inspection                                                                                                    -         -          -
2.20.4.5   Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -          -
2.20.4.6   Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -          -
2.20.5    Mission Computer/Flight Management
          Systems
2.20.5.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.20.5.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         B          -
2.20.5.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                               B         B          -
2.20.5.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.20.5.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.20.5.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.20.6    Fuel Management Systems
2.20.6.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.20.6.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         B          -
2.20.6.3 System of Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            B         B          -
2.20.6.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.20.6.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.20.6.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.21 GENERAL NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
        (COMMON)
2.21.1 Flight Director System
2.21.1.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.21.1.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B          B          -
2.21.1.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                             B          B          -
2.21.1.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     2b         -          -
2.21.1.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.21.1.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           2b         -          -
2.21.2 Compass/ Attitude Heading Reference
          System
2.21.2.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.21.2.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         B          -

                                                                32
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.21.2.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                             B          B          -
2.21.2.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     2b         -          -
2.21.2.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.21.2.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           2b         -          -
2.21.3 Calibration/ Boresight System
2.21.3.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.21.3.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         B          -
2.21.3.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                               -         -          -
2.21.3.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.21.3.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.21.3.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.21.4 Inertial Navigation System
2.21.4.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.21.4.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B          B          -
2.21.4.3 System Tie-In / Integration                                                                                            B          B          -
2.21.4.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.21.4.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.21.4.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.21.4.7 Perform Alignment                                                                                                      2b         -          -
2.21.5 Global Positioning System
2.21.5.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.21.5.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         B          -
2.21.5.3 System Tie-In / Integration                                                                                             B         B          -
2.21.5.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.21.5.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.21.5.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.22 FLIGHT INSTRUMENT SYSTEMS
        (COMMON)
2.22.1    Pilot Static System
2.22.1.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.22.1.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B          B          -
2.22.1.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                             B          B          -
2.22.1.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     2b         -          -
2.22.1.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.22.1.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           2b         -          -
2.22.2 Altimeter
2.22.2.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.22.2.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B          B          -
2.22.2.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                               -         -          -
2.22.2.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     2b         -          -
2.22.2.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.22.2.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           2b         -          -
2.22.3 Vertical Velocity
2.22.3.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.22.3.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         B          -


                                                                33
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.22.3.3    System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            -         -          -
2.22.3.4    Perform Inspection                                                                                                  2b         -          -
2.22.3.5    Perform Operational Checks                                                                                          2b         -          -
2.22.3.6    Troubleshoot                                                                                                        2b         -          -
2.22.4     Airspeed
2.22.4.1    Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                          -         -          -
2.22.4.2    Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B          B          -
2.22.4.3    System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            -         -          -
2.22.4.4    Perform Inspection                                                                                                  2b         -          -
2.22.4.5    Perform Operational Checks                                                                                          2b         -          -
2.22.4.6    Troubleshoot                                                                                                        2b         -          -
2.22.5     True Airspeed
2.22.5.1    Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                          -         -          -
2.22.5.2    Theory of Operation                                                                                                  B         B          -
2.22.5.3    System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            -         -          -
2.22.5.4    Perform Inspection                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.22.5.5    Perform Operational Checks                                                                                           -         -          -
2.22.5.6    Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -         -          -
2.22.6     Mach
2.22.6.1    Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                          -         -          -
2.22.6.2    Theory of Operation                                                                                                  B         B          -
2.22.6.3    System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            -         -          -
2.22.6.4    Perform Inspection                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.22.6.5    Perform Operational Checks                                                                                           -         -          -
2.22.6.6    Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -         -          -
2.22.7     Accelerometer (G-meter)
2.22.7.1    Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                          -         -          -
2.22.7.2    Theory of Operation                                                                                                  B         -          -
2.22.7.3    System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            -         -          -
2.22.7.4    Perform Inspection                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.22.7.5    Perform Operational Checks                                                                                           -         -          -
2.22.7.6    Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -         -          -
2.22.8     Temperature Systems
2.22.8.1    Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                          -         -          -
2.22.8.2    Theory of Operation                                                                                                  A         A          -
2.22.8.3    System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                           A         -          -
2.22.8.4    Perform Inspection                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.22.8.5    Perform Operational Checks                                                                                           -         -          -
2.22.8.6    Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -         -          -
2.22.9     Heads-Up Display (HUD)
2.22.9.1    Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                          -         -          -
2.22.9.2    Theory of Operation                                                                                                  B         B          -
2.22.9.3    System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                           B         B          -
2.22.9.4    Perform Inspection                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.22.9.5    Perform Operational Checks                                                                                           -         -          -


                                                                34
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.22.9.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.22.10 Angle of Attack
2.22.10.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                            -         -          -
2.22.10.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B         B          -
2.22.10.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                             B         -          -
2.22.10.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     -         -          -
2.22.10.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -          -
2.22.10.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           -         -          -
2.22.11 Air Data
2.22.11.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                            -         -          -
2.22.11.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   B          B          -
2.22.11.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                            B          B          -
2.22.11.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                    2b         -          -
2.22.11.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            2b         -          -
2.22.11.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                          2b         -          -
2.23 FLIGHT DATA RECORDER
        (COMMON)
2.23.1 Flight Data Recording Systems
2.23.1.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.23.1.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         B          -
2.23.1.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                              B         B          -
2.23.1.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.23.1.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.23.1.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.24 WARNING SYSTEMS (COMMON)
2.24.1 Terrain Alert Warning Systems (TAWS/
          GCAS/GPWX)
2.24.1.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.24.1.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         B          -
2.24.1.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                              B         B          -
2.24.1.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.24.1.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.24.1.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.24.2 Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance
          System (TCAS)
2.24.2.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.24.2.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     A         -          -
2.24.2.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                              A         -          -
2.24.2.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.24.2.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.24.2.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.24.3 Altitude Alerter
2.24.3.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.24.3.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         -          -
2.24.3.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                               -         -          -
2.24.3.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -

                                                                35
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.24.3.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.24.3.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.24.4 Caution Advisory/ Warning Systems
2.24.4.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.24.4.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         B          -
2.24.4.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                              B         B          -
2.24.4.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.24.4.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.24.4.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.25 ENGINE INDICATING SYSTEMS
        (COMMON)
2.25.1 Exhaust Gas Temperature (EGT)
          Indicating System
2.25.1.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.25.1.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B          B          -
2.25.1.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                             A          -          -
2.25.1.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.25.1.5 Perform Operational Check                                                                                              2b         -          -
2.25.1.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           2b         -          -
2.25.2 Tachometers
2.25.2.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.25.2.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B          B          -
2.25.2.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                             A          -          -
2.25.2.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     2b         -          -
2.25.2.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.25.2.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           2b         -          -
2.25.3 Engine Pressure Ratio
2.25.3.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.25.3.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B          B          -
2.25.3.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                             A          -          -
2.25.3.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     2b         -          -
2.25.3.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.25.3.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           2b         -          -
2.25.4 Oil Pressure
2.25.4.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.25.4.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B          B          -
2.25.4.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                             A          -          -
2.25.4.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     2b         -          -
2.25.4.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.25.4.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           2b         -          -
2.25.5 Fuel Flow
2.25.5.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.25.5.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B          B          -
2.25.5.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                             A          -          -
2.25.5.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     2b         -          -


                                                                36
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.25.5.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.25.5.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           2b         -          -
2.25.6 Torque/ Horsepower
2.25.6.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.25.6.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         B          -
2.25.6.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                              A         -          -
2.25.6.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.25.6.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.25.6.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.26 LIQUID QUANTITY INDICATING
       SYSTEM (COMMON)
2.26.1 Capacitance
2.26.1.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.26.1.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    B          B          -
2.26.1.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                             B          -          -
2.26.1.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     2b         -          -
2.26.1.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.26.1.6 Perform Calibration                                                                                                    2b         -          -
2.26.1.7 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           2b         B          -
2.26.2 Resistance
2.26.2.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             -         -          -
2.26.2.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     B         A          -
2.26.2.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                               -         -          -
2.26.2.4 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -         -          -
2.26.2.5 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -          -
2.26.2.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.27 AIRCRAFT WIRING (COMMON)
2.27.1 Kapton                                                                                                                    A         A          -
2.27.2 Multiconductor                                                                                                            A         -          -
2.27.3 Coaxial                                                                                                                   A         B          -
2.27.4 Triaxial                                                                                                                  A         B          -
2.27.5 Fiber Optics                                                                                                              A         A          -
2.27.6 Perform Wire Maintenance
2.27.6.1   Stripping                                                                                                            2b         B          -
2.27.6.2   Environmental Splicing                                                                                               2b         B          -
2.27.6.3   Bundling                                                                                                             2b         B          -
2.27.6.4   Strain Relief                                                                                                        2b         B          -
2.27.6.5   Nuclear Hardened                                                                                                      a         A          -
2.27.6.6   Twisted Pair                                                                                                          a         -          -
2.27.6.7   Single Conductor                                                                                                      a         -          -
2.27.6.8   Thermocouple Wiring                                                                                                   a         B          -
2.27.7   Continuity Checks                                                                                                      2b         -          -
2.27.8    Wire Repair                                *                                                                           -         B          -
2.27.9 Solder / Desolder
2.27.9.1 Terminal Connections                                                                                                    -         -          -


                                                                37
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

2.27.9.2  Circuit (PC) Boards                                                                                                   -          -          -
2.27.9.3  Multipin Connectors                                                                                                  2b/b        -          -
2.27.9.4  Pot Connectors                                                                                                        -          -          -
2.27.10   Assemble / Disassemble Solderless
          Connectors
2.27.10.1 Crimp Connectors                           *                                                                          -          -          -
2.27.10.2 Coaxial Connectors                                                                                                    -          -          -
2.27.10.3 Multipin Connectors                                                                                                  2b/b        -          -
2.28 REMOVE/ INSTALL COMMON
       ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS
       (COMMON)
2.28.1    Switches                                                                                                               -         -          -
2.28.2    Relays                                                                                                                 -         -          -
2.28.3    Circuit Breakers/ Fuses                                                                                                -         -          -
2.28.4    Remote Control Circuit Breakers                                                                                        -         -          -
2.28.5    Terminal/ Modular Blocks                                                                                               -         -          -
2.28.6    Capacitors/ Resistors/ Diodes                                                                                          -         -          -
2.28.7    Lights/ Light Bulbs                                                                                                    -         -          -
2.28.8    Fans/ Blowers                                                                                                          -         -          -
2.28.9    Transformers                                                                                                           -         -          -
2.29 USE TEST EQUIPMENT / SPECIAL
       TOOLS (COMMON)
2.29.1 Bus Analyzer                                                                                                              -         -          -
2.29.2 Wire Maintenance Heat Gun                                                                                                2b         -          -
2.29.3 Fuel Quantity Test Set                                                                                                   2b         A          -
2.29.4 Engine Indicating Test Set                                                                                                -         -          -
2.29.5 TTU-205 Test Set                                                                                                         2b         A          -
2.29.6   Jet Calibrator/ Analyzer                                                                                               2b         -          -
2.29.7   Tachometer Tester                                                                                                      2b         -          -
2.29.8   Variable Reluctance Test Set                                                                                            -         -          -
2.29.9   Deadweight Tester                                                                                                      2b         -          -
2.29.10 Fuel Flow Test Set                                                                                                      2b         -          -
2.29.11 IFF Test Set                                                                                                             -         -          -
2.29.12 VOR / ILS Test Set                                                                                                      2b         -          -
2.29.13 MC-1M/ Compass Calibrator                                                                                                -         -          -
2.29.14 Flight Data Recording Test Set                                                                                           -         -          -
2.29.15 Laptop / Hand-Held Computers                                                                                             -         -          -
2.29.16 TACAN Test Set                                                                                                           -         -          -
2.29.17 Bonding Meter                                                                                                           2b         A          -




                                                                38
                                                   C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency Codes
                                                        2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          A         B       C
                                                           A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                     Level     Level     Level
                                                                             Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                         5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                              Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

Attachment 3 C-5 Training Requirements
  NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A8X2X048X, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
          representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
          general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
          the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
          identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
  NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
  NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
  NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
  NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
          not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
          Attachment is waived.
  NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at
          DSN 736-7908
3.1 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
     MAINTENANCE (C-5)
     TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.1.1 Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                        *                                                                           -          -         -
3.1.2 FOD Prevention                                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.1.3 Major Systems                                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.1.4 Major Structural Areas                                                                                                           -          -         -
3.1.5 Technical Order Familiarization                      *                                                                           -          -         -
3.1.6 Flightline Safety / Precautions / Security                                                                                       -          -         -
3.1.7 Select / Use Safetying Devices                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.1.8 Enter / Exit Vertical Stabilizer                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.1.9 Aircraft Egress Procedures                                                                                                       -          -         -
3.1.10 Fire Suppression System (FSS)                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.1.11 Launch Aircraft                                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.1.12 Recover Aircraft                                                                                                                -          -         -
3.2 GENERAL MAINTENANCE TASKS (C-5)
     TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.2.1 Statically Ground Aircraft                                                                                                       -          -         -
3.2.2 Jack Aircraft
3.2.2.1 Jacking Supervisor                                                                                                             -          -         -
3.2.2.2 Jacking Team Member                                                                                                            -          -         -
3.2.3 Open / Close Engine Cowling                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.2.4 Remove / Install Aircraft Maintenance                                                                                            -          -         -
       Access Panels
3.2.5 Use Aircraft Interphone System                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.2.6 Tow Aircraft
3.2.6.1 Wing Walker                                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.2.6.2 Brake Operator                                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.2.6.3 Tow Team Supervisor                                                                                                            -          -         -
3.2.6.4 Panel Operator for Power-On Tow                                                                                                -          -         -
3.2.6.5 Marshall                                                                                                                       -          -         -
3.2.7 Refuel / Defuel
3.2.7.1 Team Member                                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.2.7.2 Panel Operator                                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.2.7.3 Supervisor                                                                                                                     -          -         -

                                                                      39
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.2.7.4 Concurrent Servicing Supervisor (CSS)                                                                                    -          -         -
3.2.8 Kneel Team
3.2.8.1 Team Member                                                                                                              -          -         -
3.2.8.2 Panel Operator                                                                                                           -          -         -
3.2.8.3 Supervisor                                                                                                               -          -         -
3.2.9 Dropped Object Prevention Program                                                                                          -          -         -
       (DOPP)
3.2.10 Apply / Disconnect External Electrical        *                                                                           -          -         -
        Power
3.2.11 Team Communications                                                                                                       -          -         -
3.2.12 Ensure Aircraft is Safe for Simulated                                                                                     -          -         -
        Airborne Conditions
3.2.13 Perform Inspections
3.2.13.1 Post-Flight                                                                                                             -          -         -
3.2.13.2 Pre-Flight                                                                                                              -          -         -
3.2.13.3 Thru-Flight                                                                                                             -          -         -
3.2.13.4 Isochronal                                                                                                              -          -         -
3.2.13.5 Home Station Check (HSC)                                                                                                -          -         -
3.2.14 Service
3.2.14.1 Liquid Nitrogen System                                                                                                  -          -         -
3.2.14.2 Liquid Oxygen System (LOX)                                                                                              -          -         -
3.2.15 Remove / Install
3.2.15.1 NLG Wheel and Tire Assembly                                                                                             -          -         -
3.2.15.2 MLG Wheel and Tire Assembly                                                                                             -          -         -
3.2.15.3 MLG Brake Assembly                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.2.16 Operate Forward and Aft Cargo Door                                                                                        -          -         -
        System
3.2.17 Operate
3.2.17.1 APU                                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.2.17.2 ATM/Hydraulics                                                                                                          -          -         -
3.2.18 Perform Engine Run                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.2.19 Hydraulic Test Stand                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.2.20 On-Board Heating / Air Conditioning                                                                                       -          -         -
        System
3.2.21 Crew Entrance Door                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.2.22 Operate Forward and Aft Cargo Door                                                                                        -          -         -
        System
3.2.23 Hydraulic Test Stand                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.2.24 On-Board Heating / Air Conditioning                                                                                       -          -         -
        System
3.2.25 Crew Entrance Door                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.2.26 Service
3.2.26.1 Aircraft Struts with Nitrogen                                                                                           -          -         -
3.2.26.2 Aircraft Tires                                                                                                          -          -         -
3.2.26.3 Aircraft Engine Oil                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.2.26.4 Aircraft Hydraulic Reservoir                                                                                            -          -         -


                                                                40
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.2.26.5 Aircraft Engine CSD                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.2.26.6 Aircraft Engine Starter                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.2.26.7 APU Oil                                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.2.26.8 ATM Oil                                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.2.26.9 Aircraft Accumulator with Nitrogen                                                                                      -          -         -
3.2.26.10 Service Aircraft Slide / Ejection                                                                                      -          -         -
           Bottles
3.2.27 Remove / Install Engine Fan Stoppers                                                                                      -          -         -
3.2.28 Remove Bottles                                                                                                            -          -         -
3.2.29 Lubricate Aircraft                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.3 GENERAL FLIGHT CONTROLS (C-5)
3.3.1 Position Indicating Systems
3.3.1.1 Landing Gear System
         TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.3.1.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.1.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.1.1.3 Remove / Install MLG Position                                                                                          -          -         -
           Transmitter
3.3.1.1.4 Perform Adjustments                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.1.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.1.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.3.1.2 Caster / Power-Back System
         TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.3.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.1.2.2 Perform Complete Operation Checks                                                                                      -          -         -
3.3.1.2.3 Perform Computer BITE Check                *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.1.2.4 Remove / Install
3.3.1.2.4.1 Linear Voltage Differential                                                                                          -          -         -
            Transducer (LVDT)
3.3.1.2.4.2 Electro-Hydraulic Valve (EHV)                                                                                        -          -         -
3.3.1.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.1.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.3.1.3 Flaps / Slats
         TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.3.1.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.1.3.2 Perform Operational Checks
3.3.1.3.2.1 Flaps Operational Check with Slats                                                                                   -          -         -
3.3.1.3.2.2 Flaps Operational Check without                                                                                      -          -         -
            Slats
3.3.1.3.3 Remove / Install Flap Position                                                                                         -          -         -
           Transducer / Transmitter
3.3.1.3.4 Adjust Flap Position Transducer /                                                                                      -          -         -
           Transmitter
3.3.1.3.5 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.1.3.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.3.1.4 Flight Control Trim
         TR: Applicable C-5 TOs

                                                                41
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.3.1.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.1.4.2 Perform Operational Checks
3.3.1.4.2.1 Aileron                                  *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.1.4.2.2 Rudder                                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.1.4.2.3 Horizontal Stabilizer                    *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.1.4.3 Remove / Install Horizontal Stabilizer                                                                                 -          -         -
           Position Transducer
3.3.1.4.4 Adjust Horizontal Stabilizer Position                                                                                  -          -         -
           Transducer
3.3.1.4.5 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.1.4.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.3.2 Automatic Flight Control Systems (AFCS)
3.3.2.1 Autopilot
         TR: 1C-5A-2-9
3.3.2.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.2.1.2 Perform Operational Checks
3.3.2.1.2.1 VSFI Marker Test (IAS, mach,                                                                                         -          -         -
             altitude)
3.3.2.1.2.2 AFCS Control Panel                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.1.2.3 Computer BITE (pitch )                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.1.2.4 Computer BITE (roll)                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.1.2.5 Autopilot Engage / Disengage                                                                                         -          -         -
             Overpower Test
3.3.2.1.2.6 Control Wheel Steering (pitch and                                                                                    -          -         -
             roll rate)
3.3.2.1.2.7 Heading Select / Hold                                                                                                -          -         -
3.3.2.1.2.8 Attitude and Altitude Hold                                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.1.2.9 Pitch Trim Interlock Test                                                                                            -          -         -
3.3.2.1.2.10 Autopilot Interfacing Systems /
              Component Operational Checks
3.3.2.1.2.10.1 MADAR II (pitch and roll                                                                                          -          -         -
                 autopilot)
3.3.2.1.2.10.2 Elevator Cable Position (ECP),                                                                                    -          -         -
                 Aileron Cable Position (ACP),
                 Flap Position and Horizontal
                 Stabilizer Position
3.3.2.1.2.10.3 SCADC                                                                                                             -          -         -
3.3.2.1.2.10.4 FSAS Coupled Vertical                                                                                             -          -         -
                 Navigation Mode
3.3.2.1.2.10.5 Navigation Aids (Localizer, ILS,                                                                                  -          -         -
                 Glideslope, VOR, TACAN)
3.3.2.1.3 Remove / Install
3.3.2.1.3.1 Pitch / Roll Servomotor                  *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.1.3.2 Hub Force Sensor                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.1.3.3 Control Wheel / Yoke                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.1.3.4 Elevator Cable Position (ECP) /                                                                                      -          -         -
             Aileron Cable Position (ACP)


                                                                42
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

            Transducers
3.3.2.1.4 Adjust
3.3.2.1.4.1 Hub Force Sensors                        *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.1.4.2 ECP / ACP Transducers                                                                                                -          -         -
3.3.2.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.3.2.2 Autoland System
         TR: 1C-5A-2-9, Technical Orders
3.3.2.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.2.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -          -         -
3.3.2.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.3.2.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                       -          -         -
3.3.2.3 Pilot Assist Cable Servo (PACS)
         Subsystem
         TR: 1C-5A-2-9
3.3.2.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.2.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.3.3 Remove / Install PACS Servos                                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.3.2.4 Stability Augmentation System
         TR: 1C-5A-2-9
3.3.2.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.2.4.2 Perform Operational Checks
3.3.2.4.2.1 Pitch Augmentation Operational           *                                                                           -          -         -
            Check
3.3.2.4.2.2 Yaw Augmentation Operational             *                                                                           -          -         -
            Check
3.3.2.4.2.3 Lateral Augmentation Operational         *                                                                           -          -         -
            Check
3.3.2.4.3 Remove / Install
3.3.2.4.3.1 Shutoff Valve                            *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.4.3.2 Pressure Switch                          *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.4.3.3 Electro-Hydraulic Valve                                                                                              -          -         -
3.3.2.4.3.4 Linear Variable Differential                                                                                         -          -         -
            Transformer (LVDTs)
3.3.2.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.4.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.3.2.5 Active Lift Distribution Control
         Subsystem (ALDCS)
         TR: 1C-5A-2-9
3.3.2.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.2.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.5.3 Remove / Install ALDCS                                                                                                 -          -         -
           Accelerometer
3.3.2.5.4 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.5.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -

                                                                43
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.3.2.6 Autothrottle
         TR: 1C-5A-2-9
3.3.2.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.2.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.6.3 Remove / Install Autothrottle Servo                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.2.6.4 Adjust Throttle Position Switches                                                                                      -          -         -
3.3.2.6.5 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.6.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.3.2.7 Go-Around Attitude System (GAAS)
         TR: 1C-5A-2-9
3.3.2.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.3.2.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.7.3 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.3.2.7.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.4 GENERAL COMPUTER COMPLEX (C-5)
3.4.1 On-Board Diagnostic Systems
3.4.1.1 Malfunction, Detection, Analysis and
         Recording System (MADARS III)
         TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.4.1.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.4.1.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.4.1.1.3 Load CPINs                                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.4.1.1.4 Multi-Function Display Controller                                                                                      -          -         -
           Recorder Cleaning
3.4.1.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.4.1.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.4.1.1.7 Remove / Install
3.4.1.1.7.1 MCDR Workstation                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.4.1.1.7.2 Front Panel Assembly                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.4.1.1.7.3 Uninterruptible Power Supply                                                                                         -          -         -
            (Battery Backup)
3.4.1.1.7.4 Communications Controller                                                                                            -          -         -
3.4.1.1.7.5 Voltage Converter                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.4.1.1.7.6 Printout Unit                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.4.1.1.7.7 Printout Unit Paper Installation                                                                                     -          -         -
3.4.1.1.7.8 MCDR PCMCIA Card Insertion /                                                                                         -          -         -
            Removal Procedures
3.4.1.1.7.9 Remove / Install EVI Leads                                                                                           -          -         -
3.4.1.1.7.10 Remove / Install EVI Pylon Leads                                                                                    -          -         -
3.4.1.2 Loads Environment Spectra Survey
         (LESS) System
         TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.4.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.4.1.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -          -         -
3.4.1.2.3 Adjust Transducers                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.4.1.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                   -          -         -


                                                                44
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.4.1.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                       -          -         -
3.4.1.3 Mission Computer / FMS
3.4.1.3.1 Fuel Savings Advisory System (FSAS)
           TR: 1C-5A-2-8-2-1
3.4.1.3.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                  -          -         -
3.4.1.3.1.2 Perform Operational Checks               *                                                                           -          -         -
3.4.1.3.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.4.1.3.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                   *                                                                 -          -         -
3.4.1.3.2 Flight Management System (FMS-800)
           TR: 1C-5A-2-8-2-1
3.4.1.3.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                  -          -         -
3.4.1.3.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                           -          -         -
3.4.1.3.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.4.1.3.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                     -          -         -
3.5 GENERAL NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
     (C-5)
3.5.1 Secondary Flight Display System /
       Attitude Indicator
       TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.5.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.5.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.5.1.3 Remove / Install ADU                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.5.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.5.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.5.2 Flight Director System
       TR: 1C-5A-2-6
3.5.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.5.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.5.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.5.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.5.3 Magnetic Standby Compass System
       TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.5.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.5.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                               -          -         -
3.5.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.5.4 Inertial Navigation System (INS)
       TR: 1C-5A-2-8-2-1
3.5.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.5.4.2 Perform INS Alignment Procedures             *                                                                           -          -         -
3.5.4.3 Perform Gimbal Slew Procedures               *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6 FLIGHT INSTRUMENTS (C-5)
3.6.1 Pitot-Static System
       TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.6.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.6.1.2 Perform Inspection
3.6.1.2.1 Pitot Tubes                                *                                                                           -          -         -


                                                                45
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.6.1.2.2 Pitot Lines                                                                                                            -          -         -
3.6.1.3 Perform Operational Checks
3.6.1.3.1 System Leak Check                          *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.1.3.2 System Heat Check                          *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.1.4 Remove / Install
3.6.1.4.1 Pitot-Static Lines / Hoses                                                                                             -          -         -
3.6.1.4.2 Drain Bottles                              *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.1.4.3 Pitot-Static Tubes                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.6.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.6.2 Navigators Altimeter (Barometric)
       TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.6.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.6.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.2.3 Remove / Install Altimeter                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.2.4 Adjust Altimeter                                                                                                         -          -         -
3.6.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.6.3 Altitude / Vertical Velocity Indicator
       TR: 1C-5A-2-6
3.6.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.6.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.6.4 Navigators Indicated Airspeed Indicator
       TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.6.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.6.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.4.3 Remove / Install Indicator                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.4.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.6.5 Airspeed / Mach / Angle Of Attack
       Indicator
       TR: 1C-5A-2-6
3.6.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.6.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.5.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.6.6 Accelerometer (G-Meter)
       TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.6.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.6.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.6.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.7 Total Air Temperature System
       TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.6.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -


                                                                46
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.6.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                               -          -         -
3.6.7.3 Remove / Install TAT Probe                                                                                               -          -         -
3.6.7.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.6.7.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                         -          -         -
3.6.8 Angle Of Attack
       TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.6.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.6.8.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.8.3 Remove / Install
3.6.8.3.1 AOA Transducer                             *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.8.3.2 AOA Transducer Mount                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.6.8.4 Adjust Mount                                                                                                             -          -         -
3.6.8.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.6.8.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.7 CENTRAL AIR DATA SYSTEM (CADC)
     (C-5)
     TR: 1C-5A-2-6 Applicable C-5 TOs
3.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.7.2 Perform Operational Checks
3.7.2.1 Standard Central Air Data Computer           *                                                                           -          -         -
         (SCADC) Leak and Accuracy Check
3.7.2.2 RVSM Check                                             *                                                                 -          -         -
3.7.2.3 SCADC BITE / Manual Test                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.7.2.4 Navigators Vertical Velocity                                                                                             -          -         -
3.7.2.5 Navigators True Airspeed                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.7.3 Remove / Install SCADC                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.7.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                           -          -         -
3.7.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -          -         -
3.8 DIGITAL FLIGHT DATA RECORDER
     (DFDR) SYSTEM (C-5)
     TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.8.2 Perform Operational Checks                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.8.3 Remove / Install Digital Flight Data                                                                                       -          -         -
       Recorder
3.8.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                           -          -         -
3.8.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -          -         -
3.8.6 Perform DFDR Tasks Using Personal
       Interface Unit (PIU)
3.8.6.1 Operational Checks                           *                                                                           -          -         -
3.8.6.2 Download                                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.9 WARNING SYSTEMS (C-5)
3.9.1 Ground Proximity Warning System
       TR: 1C-5A-2-8-2-1
3.9.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.9.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -


                                                                47
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.9.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.9.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.9.2 Stallimiter System
       TR: 1C-5A-2-9
3.9.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.9.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.9.2.3 Remove / Install Stallimiter Shaker                                                                                      -          -         -
         Motor
3.9.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.9.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.10 ENGINE INDICATING SYSTEMS (C-5)
3.10.1 Temperature
3.10.1.1 Engine Oil Temperature Indicating
          System
          TR: 1C-5A-2-4
3.10.1.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.10.1.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -          -         -
3.10.1.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                      *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.1.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.10.1.2 CSD Oil Temperature Indicating
          System
          TR: 1C-5A-2-4
3.10.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.10.1.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -          -         -
3.10.1.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                      *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.1.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.10.1.3 Fuel Temperature Indicating System
          TR: 1C-5A-2-4
3.10.1.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.10.1.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.1.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                      *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.1.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.10.1.4 Turbine Inlet Temperature Indicating
          System
          TR: 1C-5A-2-4
3.10.1.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.10.1.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -          -         -
3.10.1.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                      *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.1.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.10.1.5 APU Exhaust Gas Temperature
          Indicating System
          TR: 1C-5A-2-4
3.10.1.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.10.1.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.1.5.3 Isolate Malfunctions                      *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.1.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.10.2 Engine RPM Indicating System /

                                                                48
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

        Tachometer
        TR: 1C-5A-2-4
3.10.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.10.2.2 Perform Operational Checks
3.10.2.2.1 N-1 Operational Check                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.10.2.2.2 N-2 Operational Check                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.10.2.3 Remove / Install N-2 Tachometer                                                                                         -          -         -
          Generator
3.10.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -          -         -
3.10.3 Pressure Indicating Systems
3.10.3.1 Engine Oil Pressure Indicating System
          TR: 1C-5A-2-4
3.10.3.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.10.3.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -          -         -
3.10.3.1.3 Remove / Install Oil Pressure                                                                                         -          -         -
            Transmitter
3.10.3.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                      *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.3.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.10.3.2 Fuel Pressure Indicating System
          TR: 1C-5A-2-5
3.10.3.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.10.3.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.3.2.3 Remove / Install Fuel Pressure                                                                                        -          -         -
            Transmitter
3.10.3.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                      *                                                                           -          -         -
3.10.3.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.11 HYDRAULIC PRESSURE INDICATING
      SYSTEMS (C-5)
      TR:TO 1C-5A-2-3
3.11.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -          -         -
3.11.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                           -          -         -
3.11.3 Remove / Install Hydraulic Pressure           *                                                                           -          -         -
        Transmitter
3.11.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                           -          -         -
3.11.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -          -         -
3.12 FUEL FLOW INDICATING SYSTEM
      (C-5)
      TR:TO 1C-5A-2-4
3.12.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -          -         -
3.12.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                -          -         -
3.12.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                           -          -         -
3.12.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -          -         -
3.13 LIQUID QUANTITY INDICATING
      SYSTEMS (C-5)
3.13.1 Hydraulic Quantity Indicating System
        TR: 1C-5A-2-3

                                                                49
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.13.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -          -         -
3.13.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                -          -         -
3.13.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.13.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                          -          -         -
3.13.2 Fuel Quantity Indicating System
        TR: 1C-5A-2-5
3.13.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -          -         -
3.13.2.2 Perform Operational Checks
3.13.2.2.1 Flight Deck                                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.13.2.2.2 Wing Tank Boundary                          *                                                                           -          -         -
3.13.2.2.3 Sump Low Level                              *                                                                           -          -         -
3.13.2.2.4 Main Tank Low                               *                                                                           -          -         -
3.13.2.3 Calibrate Indicator (primary / alternate)     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.13.2.4 Calibrate Fuel Totalizer Indicator            *                                                                           -          -         -
3.13.2.5 Remove / Install
3.13.2.5.1 Fuel Probes                                                                                                             -          -         -
3.13.2.5.2 Sump Low Level Sensor                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.13.2.5.3 Safe Tank(s) for Flight                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.13.2.6 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                           -          -         -
3.13.2.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -          -         -
3.14 USE TEST EQUIPMENT (C-5)
      TR: Applicable 1C-5A-2 TOs
3.14.1 Data Bus Breakout Board                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.14.2 AFCS Breakout Board / Box                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.14.3 ECP / ACP Breakout Board / Box                                                                                              -          -         -
3.14.4 Augmentation Servo Loop Test Box                *                                                                           -          -         -
3.14.5 DSC-101 Vibe Tester                             *                                                                           -          -         -
3.14.6 Fuel Totalizer Test Set                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.14.7 Engine Instrument Test Set                                                                                                  -          -         -
3.15 AMP/C-5M TASKS
3.15.1 General Tasks
        TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.15.1.1 Interior Lighting (operation and                                                                                          -          -         -
          adjustment of panel lighting)
3.15.1.2 Operate Aircraft Radios (V/UHF)                                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.1.3 Operate Applicable Core Systems                                                                                           -          -         -
          (power-up VIA / AIU / BIP)
3.15.1.4 Navigate MFDU Display Functions                                                                                           -          -         -
          (PFD / NAV / radar/ engine / CWA /
          ATC / and BIT status screens)
3.15.2 Avionics Specific
3.15.2.1 Core Processing Systems
          TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.15.2.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.15.2.1.2 Apply Power to Core Processing              *                                                                           -          -         -
            System


                                                                  50
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.15.2.1.3 Perform Operational Checks
3.15.2.1.3.1 Versatile Integrated Avionics /          *                                                                           -          -         -
              Avionics Interface Unit (VIA / AIU)
3.15.2.1.3.2 Back-Up Integrated Processor (BIP)       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.2.1.3.3 1553 Data Bus                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.15.2.1.4 Remove / Replace
3.15.2.1.4.1 Versatile Integrated Avionics (VIA)      *                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.2.1.4.2 Avionics Interface Unit (AIU)            *                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.2.1.4.3 Back-Up Integrated Processor (BIP)       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.2.1.5 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.2.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -          -         -
3.15.2.1.7 Load
3.15.2.1.7.1 Core Processing Operational Flight       *                                                                           -          -         -
              Program (OFP) Software
              (VIA/AIU)
3.15.2.1.7.2 Navigation Database into AIU                                                                                         -          -         -
3.15.2.1.7.2 BIP OFP Software                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.3 Controls and Displays System
3.15.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.15.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.3.3 Operate Controls and Displays System         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.3.4 Remove / Install
3.15.3.4.1 Multipurpose Control Display UNIT          *                                                                           -          -         -
            (MCDU)
3.15.3.4.2 Flight Engr / Nav Cursor Control           *                                                                           -          -         -
            Panel (CCP)
3.15.3.4.3 Pilot / Copilot Cursor Control Device      *                                                                           -          -         -
            (CCD)
3.15.3.4.4 Multifunction Display Unit (MFDU)          *                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.3.4.5 MFDU Inclinometer (slid / skid             *                                                                           -          -         -
            indicator)
3.15.3.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.15.3.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -          -         -
3.15.3.7 Cautions, Warnings, Advisories and
          Special Alerts Systems
          TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.15.3.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.15.3.7.2 Perform CWA Aural Tone Checkout                                                                                        -          -         -
3.16. COMMUNICATION, NAVIGATION
       AND SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS
3.16.1. Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning
         System (EGPWS)
         TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.16.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.16.1.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.1.3 Troubleshoot and Fault Isolate EGPWS                                                                                     -          -         -
3.16.1.4 Load Terrain Database in EGPWS                                                                                           -          -         -

                                                                 51
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

          Computer
3.16.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -          -         -
3.16.2 Embedded GPS / INS (EGI)
        TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.16.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.16.2.2 Perform Turn-On and Alignment               *                                                                           -          -         -
          Procedures
3.16.3 Micro Inertial Reference System (MIRS)
        TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.16.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.16.3.2 Perform Turn-On and Alignment               *                                                                           -          -         -
          Procedures
3.16.4 Automatic Flight Control System (AFCS)
        TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.16.4.1 Perform Full Suite IBIT                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.4.2 Perform AFCS Control Panel Ops              *                                                                           -          -         -
          Check
3.16.4.3 Remove / Replace AFCS Control Panel         *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.4.4 Autopilot
          TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.16.4.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.16.4.4.2 Perform Individual Autopilot M-Tests      *                                                                           -          -         -
            / IBIT
3.16.4.4.3 Autopilot Subsystem Initial Engage-       *                                                                           -          -         -
            Disengage Test
3.16.4.4.4 Remove / Replace AFCS Control             *                                                                           -          -         -
            Panel
3.16.4.4.5 Autopilot Subsystem Initial Engage-                                                                                   -          -         -
            Disengage Test
3.16.4.4.6 Remove/Install
3.16.4.4.6.1 Cable Position Transducers (ACP /                                                                                   -          -         -
               ECPs)
3.16.4.4.6.2 Pitch/Roll Servomotor                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.4.4.7 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.4.4.8 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.16.5 Stability Augmentation Subsystem
        TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.16.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.16.5.2 Perform Individual Augmentation             *                                                                           -          -         -
          Subsystem M-Tests/IBIT
3.16.5.3 Use Stability Augmentation Servo Test                                                                                   -          -         -
          Set
3.16.5.4 Yaw Augmentation Subsystem Manual           *                                                                           -          -         -
          Trim Test
3.16.5.5 Remove/Install
3.16.5.5.1 Solenoid Operated Valve (SOV)             *                                                                           -          -         -


                                                                52
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.16.5.5.2 Pressure Switch                           *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.5.5.3 Electro-Hydraulic Valve (EHV)                                                                                         -          -         -
3.16.5.5.4 Linear Variable Differential                                                                                          -          -         -
           Transformer (LVDT)
3.16.5.6 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.5.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -          -         -
3.16.6 Active Lift Distribution Control
        Subsystem (ALDCS)
        TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.16.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.16.6.2 Perform Individual ALDCS M-                 *                                                                           -          -         -
          Test/IBIT
3.16.6.3 Remove/Install Accelerometer                                                                                            -          -         -
3.16.6.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.6.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -          -         -
3.16.7 Auto-throttle Subsystem
        TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.16.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.16.7.2 Perform Individual Auto-throttle            *                                                                           -          -         -
          Subsystem M-Test/IBIT
3.16.7.3 Remove/Install Auto-throttle Servo                                                                                      -          -         -
3.16.7.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.7.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -          -         -
3.16.8 Stallimiter Subsystem
        TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.16.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.16.8.2 Perform Individual Stallimiter              *                                                                           -          -         -
          Subsystem M-Tests/IBIT
3.16.8.3 Remove/Install Stick Shaker Motor                                                                                       -          -         -
3.16.8.4 Remove/Install Angle of Attack              *                                                                           -          -         -
          Transducer (AOAT)
3.16.8.5 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.8.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -          -         -
3.16.9 Pilot Assist Cable Servo Subsystem
        (PACS)
        TR: Applicable C-5 TOs
3.16.9.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.16.9.2 Perform Individual Pilot Assist Cable       *                                                                           -          -         -
          Servo Subsystem M-Tests/IBIT
3.16.9.3 Perform Individual Control Wheel Hub        *                                                                           -          -         -
          Assembly(CWHA) IBIT
3.16.9.4 Remove/Install
3.16.9.4.1 Control Wheel                             *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.9.4.2 Hub Force Sensor                          *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.9.4.3 Pitch/Roll Servomotor                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.9.4.4 Adjust Hub Force Sensor                   *                                                                           -          -         -
3.16.9.5 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                           -          -         -

                                                                53
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.16.9.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17 C-5M Specific Systems
3.17.1 General Tasks
3.17.1.1 Safety Precautions
3.17.1.1.1 High Intensity Sound                                                                                                  -          -         -
3.17.1.1.2 Aircraft Danger Areas                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.1.2 Inspections
3.17.1.2.1 Quick-turn                                                                                                            -          -         -
3.17.1.2.2 Acceptance                                                                                                            -          -         -
3.17.1.2.3 Calendar                                                                                                              -          -         -
3.17.1.2.4 Special                                                                                                               -          -         -
3.17.1.2.5 DOPP                                                                                                                  -          -         -
3.17.1.3 Tow Aircraft
3.17.1.3.1 Panel Operator                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.17.1.4 Operate
3.17.1.4.1 APU                                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.17.1.4.2 ATM/Hydraulics                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.17.1.4.3 Perform Engine Run                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.17.1.4.4 On-Board Heating / Air Conditioning                                                                                   -          -         -
            System
3.17.1.4.5 Cargo Compartment Lighting                                                                                            -          -         -
3.17.1.5 Service
3.17.1.5.1 Integrated Drive Generator (IDG)                                                                                      -          -         -
3.17.1.5.2 Engine Starter                                                                                                        -          -         -
3.17.1.6 Engine
3.17.1.6.1 Open/Close Cowls                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.17.1.6.2 Deactivate Thrust Reversers                                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.1.6.3 Lockout Thrust Reverser:                                                                                              -          -         -
3.17.2 Flight Controls
3.17.2.1 Rudder Limiter
3.17.2.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.17.2.1.2 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.2.1.3 Perform Electronic Calibration            *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.2.1.4 Remove/Install
3.17.2.1.4.1 Rudder Limiter Assembly                                                                                             -          -         -
3.17.2.1.4.2 Rudder Limiter Actuator                                                                                             -          -         -
3.17.2.1.4.3 Rudder Limiter Sensor (LVDT)                                                                                        -          -         -
3.17.2.1.4.4 Rig Rudder Limiter Using Fixture                                                                                    -          -         -
3.17.2.1.5 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.2.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.2.2 Embedded Diagnostic System (EDS)
3.17.2.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.17.2.2.2 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.2.2.3 Remove/Install Personal Computer          *                                                                           -          -         -
            Interface Unit (PCIU)


                                                                54
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.17.2.2.4 Remove/Install Auxiliary                                                                                              -          -         -
            Maintenance Computer (AMC)
            Battery
3.17.2.2.5 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.2.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.2.3 Core Processing System
3.17.2.3.1 Theory of Operation (Bus Adapter                                                                                      -          -         -
            Unit(BAU)/Remote Interface
            Unit(RIU),Versatile Integrated
            Avionics(VIA))
3.17.2.3.2 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.2.3.3 Remove/Install Remote Interface Unit      *                                                                           -          -         -
            (RIU)
3.17.2.3.4 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.2.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3 Engines
3.17.3.1 Engine Vibration Monitoring
3.17.3.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.17.3.1.2 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.1.3 Perform Engine Vibration Monitoring       *                                                                           -          -         -
            Unit (EVMU) BIT
3.17.3.1.4 Remove/Install
3.17.3.1.4.1 Removable Memory Module                 *                                                                           -          -         -
              (RMM)
3.17.3.1.4.2 EVMU                                    *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.1.4.3 N1 Vibration Accelerometer                                                                                          -          -         -
3.17.3.1.4.4 N2 Vibration Accelerometer                                                                                          -          -         -
3.17.3.1.4.5 Fan/Core Harness                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.17.3.1.5 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.2 Electronic Engine Control (EEC)
3.17.3.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.17.3.2.2 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.2.3 Remove/Install EEC                                                                                                    -          -         -
3.17.3.2.4 Load EEC Software                                                                                                     -          -         -
3.17.3.2.5 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.3 Engine Controls(Throttle Quadrant
          Assembly (TQA))
3.17.3.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.17.3.3.2 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.3.3 Remove/Install
3.17.3.3.3.1 TQA Resolvers                                                                                                       -          -         -
3.17.3.3.3.2 TQA                                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.3.3.3 TQA Thrust Reverser Solenoid                                                                                        -          -         -
              Lockout Mechanism
3.17.3.3.4 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                           -          -         -

                                                                55
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.17.3.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4 Engine Indication System
3.17.3.4.1 Engine Oil Pressure
3.17.3.4.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.1.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.1.3 Remove/Install Oil Pressure                                                                                         -          -         -
             Transmitter
3.17.3.4.1.4 Remove/Install Oil Pressure                                                                                         -          -         -
             Interface Unit
3.17.3.4.1.5 Isolate Malfunction                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                  *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.2 Engine Oil Quantity
3.17.3.4.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.2.2 Perform Operational Check               *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.2.2 Remove/Install Oil Quantity Sensor                                                                                  -          -         -
3.17.3.4.2.3 Isolate Malfunction                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                  *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.3 Engine Oil Temperature
3.17.3.4.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.3.2 Perform Operational Check               *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.3.3 Remove/Install Oil Temperature                                                                                      -          -         -
             Sensor
3.17.3.4.3.4 Isolate Malfunction                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                  *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.4 Integrated Drive Generator (IDG) Oil
            Temperature
3.17.3.4.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.4.2 Perform Operational Check               *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.4.3 Remove/Install Oil Temperature                                                                                      -          -         -
             Sensor
3.17.3.4.4.4 Isolate Malfunction                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.4.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                  *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.5 Fuel Flow
3.17.3.4.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.5.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.5.3 Remove/Install Fuel Flow                                                                                            -          -         -
             Transmitter
3.17.3.4.5.4 Isolate Malfunction                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.5.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                  *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.6 RPM Indicating
3.17.3.4.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.6.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.6.3 Remove/Install N1 Sensor                                                                                            -          -         -
3.17.3.4.6.4 Remove/Install N2 Sensor                                                                                            -          -         -
3.17.3.4.6.5 Isolate Malfunction                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.6.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                  *                                                                 -          -         -

                                                                56
                                               C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                  2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

3.17.3.4.7 Fuel Pressure
3.17.3.4.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.7.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.7.3 Remove/Install Fuel Pressure                                                                                        -          -         -
              Transmitter
3.17.3.4.7.4 Remove/Install Fuel Pressure                                                                                        -          -         -
              Interface Unit
3.17.3.4.7.5 Isolate Malfunction                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.7.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                  *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.8 Fuel Temperature
3.17.3.4.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.3.4.8.2 Perform Operational Check               *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.8.3 Remove/Install Fuel Temperature                                                                                     -          -         -
              Sensor
3.17.3.4.8.4 Isolate Malfunction                     *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.3.4.8.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                  *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.4 APUs
3.17.4.1 RPM Indicating
3.17.4.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.17.4.1.2 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.4.1.3 Remove/Install APU Speed Sensor                                                                                       -          -         -
3.17.4.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.4.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.4.2 Exhaust Gas Temperature (EGT)
          Indicating
3.17.4.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.17.4.2.2 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.4.2.3 Remove/Install EGT Thermocouple                                                                                       -          -         -
            Harness
3.17.4.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.4.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -
3.17.4.3 Full Authority Digital Electronic
          Control (FADEC)
3.17.4.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -          -         -
3.17.4.3.2 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.4.3.3 Remove/Install FADEC                                                                                                  -          -         -
3.17.4.3.4 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                           -          -         -
3.17.4.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -          -         -




                                                                57
                                                  C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency Codes
                                                        2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          A         B       C
                                                           A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                     Level     Level     Level
                                                                             Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                         5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                              Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

Attachment 4 C-17 Training Requirements
  NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A8X2X048X, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
          representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
          general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
          the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
          identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
  NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
  NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
  NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
  NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
          not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
          Attachment is waived.
  NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at
          DSN 736-7908
4.1 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
     MAINTENANCE (C-17)
     TR:TO 00-5-1/ TO 00-5-2/ AFR 5-1/ AFR
     8-2/ AFI 91-301/ TO 00-00-02-1/ TO
     25JG-60-1/ TO 00-00-01-1/ TO 25JG-60-1
     / TO 05JG-10-1 /34C2 Series/ TO 40GS-
     00-1/ TO 40JG-20-1
4.1.1 Technical Order Familiarization                                                                                                   -         -         -
4.1.2 Flightline Safety / Precautions / Security                                                                                        -         -         -
4.1.3 Enter / Exit Vertical Stabilizer/Horizontal          *                                                                            -         -         -
       Stabilizer
4.1.4 Aircraft Egress Procedures                                                                                                        -         -         -
4.1.5 Underfloor Tunnel Entry Procedures                                                                                                -         -         -
       (power-on / off)
4.2 GENERAL MAINTENANCE TASKS
     (C-17)
     TR: Applicable C-17 TOs
4.2.1 Ensure Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                 *                                                                            -         -         -
4.2.2 Use Ground Safety Devices                                                                                                         -         -         -
4.2.3 Select / Use Safetying Devices                                                                                                    -         -         -
4.2.4 Rudder Ground Safety Lock                                                                                                         -         -         -
4.2.5 Elevator Ground Safety Lock                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.2.6 Aileron Ground Safety Lock                                                                                                        -         -         -
4.2.7 Flap / Slat Ground Safety Lock                                                                                                    -         -         -
4.2.8 Use Rig Pin                                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.2.9 Operate External Electrical Power Unit               *                                                                            -         -         -
4.2.10 Operate Auxiliary Hydraulic Systems                 *                                                                            -         -         -
4.2.11 Operate / View / Erase Faults on                                                                                                 -         -         -
        Maintenance Monitor Panel
4.2.12 Load CPINs (Operational Flight Plan                 *                                                                            -         -         -
        (OFP))
4.2.13 Perform Aircraft Inspections
4.2.13.1 Home Station Check (HSC)                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.2.13.2 Acceptance                                                                                                                     -         -         -
4.2.14 Use Rudder Protractor                               *                                                                            -         -         -
4.2.15 Team Communication Training                                                                                                      -         -         -

                                                                      58
                                               C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

4.2.16 Static Grounding                                                                                                           -         -         -
4.2.17 Remove / Install Maintenance Panels                                                                                        -         -         -
4.2.18 Open / Close Engine Cowling                                                                                                -         -         -
4.2.19 Launch / Recover Aircraft                                                                                                  -         -         -
4.2.20 Perform Towing Duties
4.2.20.1 Wing / Tail Walker                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.2.20.2 Brake Operator                                                                                                           -         -         -
4.2.21 Perform Marshaling Procedures                                                                                              -         -         -
4.2.22 Refuel / Defuel Member                                                                                                     -         -         -
4.2.23 Jack Team Member                                                                                                           -         -         -
4.2.24 Apply Power Using
4.2.24.1 APU                                                                                                                      -         -         -
4.2.24.2 External Electrical Power Unit              *                                                                            -         -         -
4.2.25 Operate Cargo / Maintenance Interphone                                                                                     -         -         -
         System
4.2.26 Operate Flight Station Interphone System                                                                                   -         -         -
4.3 GENERAL FLIGHT CONTROLS (C-17)
4.3.1 Electronic Flight Control System
       TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.3.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.3.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.1.3 Perform Pre-Flight BITS
4.3.1.3.1 Electrical                                 *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.1.3.2 Hydraulic                                  *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.1.4 Perform
4.3.1.4.1 Flight Control Computer Initialization     *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.1.4.2 Minor Rig                                  *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.1.4.3 Major Rig                                            *                                                                  -         -         -
4.3.1.5 Remove / Install
4.3.1.5.1 Pitch / Roll Ratio Changer Actuator                                                                                     -         -         -
4.3.1.5.2 Pitch / Roll / Rudder Position Sensors     *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.1.5.3 Control Stick Sensor Assembly              *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.1.5.4 Rudder Pedal Force Transducer                                                                                           -         -         -
4.3.1.6 Adjust Pitch/Roll/Yaw Position Sensors       *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.1.7 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.1.8 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.3.2 Trim Sub-Systems
       TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.3.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.3.2.2 Perform Operational Check
4.3.2.2.1 Aileron                                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.2.2.2 Rudder                                     *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.2.2.3 Horizontal Stabilizer                      *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.2.3 Remove / Install Rudder Trim Actuator                                                                                     -         -         -
4.3.2.4 Remove/Install Roll Trim Actuator                                                                                         -         -         -
4.3.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -

                                                                59
                                               C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

4.3.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
4.3.3 Spoiler Control / Electronic Flap Computer
       TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.3.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.3.3.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.3.3 Perform Pre-Flight BITS
4.3.3.3.1 Electrical                                 *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.3.3.2 Hydraulic                                  *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.3.4 Perform
4.3.3.4.1 Minor Rig                                  *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.3.4.2 Major Rig                                            *                                                                  -         -         -
4.3.3.4.3 SCEFC Initialization                       *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.3.4.4 Operate Flaps with Slats                                                                                                -         -         -
4.3.3.4.5 Operate Flaps without Slats                                                                                             -         -         -
4.3.3.5 Remove / Install
4.3.3.5.1 Extend/Retract Slat Proximity Sensors                                                                                   -         -         -
4.3.3.5.2 Flap Position Transducer                                                                                                -         -         -
4.3.3.5.3 Slat Linear Actuator                                                                                                    -         -         -
4.3.3.6 Adjust Flap Position Transducer              *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.3.7 Adjust Slat Linear Actuator                  *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.3.8 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.3.9 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.3.4 Auto-Flight / Auto-Throttle System
       TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.3.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.3.4.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.4.3 Remove / Install Unique Components
4.3.4.3.1 Autopilot Control Panel                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.4.3.2 Pitch / Roll Autopilot Actuator            *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.4.3.3 Throttle Module                            *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.3.4.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.4 GENERAL COMPUTER COMPLEX
     (C-17)
     TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.4.1 Central Displays
4.4.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.4.1.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.4.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.4.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.4.2 Data Bus System / Architecture
4.4.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.4.2.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.4.2.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.4.3 Mission Computing Systems
4.4.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -

                                                                60
                                               C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

4.4.3.2 Perform Operational Checkout                 *                                                                            -         -         -
4.4.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.4.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.5 GENERAL NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
     (C-17)
4.5.1 Inertial Reference System
       TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.5.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.5.1.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.5.1.3 Load Present Position                        *                                                                            -         -         -
4.5.1.4 Align Inertial Reference Unit                *                                                                            -         -         -
4.5.1.5 Remove / Install Inertial Reference Unit     *                                                                            -         -         -
4.5.1.6 Remove/Install Battery/Charger Unit                                                                                       -         -         -
4.5.1.7 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.5.1.8 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.6 FLIGHT INSTRUMENTS (C-17)
     TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.6.1 Heads-Up Display
4.6.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.6.1.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.6.1.3 Remove / Install Heads-Up Display            *                                                                            -         -         -
4.6.1.4 Perform Alignment Verification               *                                                                            -         -         -
4.6.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.6.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.6.2 Standby Instrumentation
       TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.6.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.6.2.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.6.2.3 Remove / Install Standby Airspeed /                                                                                       -         -         -
        Altitude Indicator
4.6.2.4 Remove/Install Standby Compass                                                                                            -         -         -
4.6.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.6.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.7 AIR DATA SYSTEM (C-17)
     TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
4.7.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
4.7.3 Perform Leak Check                             *                                                                            -         -         -
4.7.4 Perform Air Data Comparison                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.7.5 Remove / Install Air Data Computer             *                                                                            -         -         -
4.7.6 Remove/Install Drain Bottle/Valve              *                                                                            -         -         -
4.7.7 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                            -         -         -
4.7.8 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
4.8 DATA RECORDERS (C-17)
4.8.1 Flight Data Recording System
       TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs


                                                                61
                                               C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

4.8.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.8.1.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.8.1.3 Download SFDR using Laptop                   *                                                                            -         -         -
4.8.1.4 Remove/Install
4.8.1.4.1 Triaxial Accelerometer                                                                                                  -         -         -
4.8.1.4.2 Signal Acquisition Unit (SAU)/Data         *                                                                            -         -         -
           Acquisition Unit (DAU)
4.8.1.4.3 Crash Survivable Memory                    *                                                                            -         -         -
           Unit/Enhanced Crash Survivable
           Memory Unit
4.8.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.8.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.8.2 Aircraft / Propulsion Data Management
       Computer (APDMC)
       TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.8.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.8.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
4.8.2.3 Initialize APDMC                             *                                                                            -         -         -
4.8.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.8.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.8.3 Quick Access Recorder System
4.8.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
4.8.3.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
4.8.3.3 Remove/Install QA Disk                                                                                                    -         -         -
4.8.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.8.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
4.9 GROUND PROXIMITY WARNING
     SYSTEM (C-17)
     TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.9.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
4.9.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
4.9.3 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                            -         -         -
4.9.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                 -         -         -
4.1 LIQUID QUANTITY INDICATING
     SYSTEMS (C-17)
4.10.1 Fuel Quantity Indicating System
        TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.10.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
4.10.1.2 Perform Operational Check                   *                                                                            -         -         -
4.10.1.3 Remove / Install Multi-Junction Probe                                                                                    -         -         -
4.10.1.4 Remove / Install Fuel Quantity              *                                                                            -         -         -
           Computer
4.10.1.5 Use Bonding Meter                                                                                                        -         -         -
4.10.1.6 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
4.10.1.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                  -         -         -
4.10.2 Terrain Awareness Warning System
         (TAWS)

                                                                62
                                               C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    A         B       C
                                                     A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                               Level     Level     Level
                                                                       Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                   5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                        Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

        TR: Use Applicable C-17 TOs
4.10.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
4.10.2.2 Perform Operational Checkout                *                                                                            -         -         -
4.10.2.3 Update TAWS database                        *                                                                            -         -         -
4.10.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                         *                                                                            -         -         -
4.10.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                  -         -         -




                                                                63
                                                  C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency Codes
                                                        2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          A         B       C
                                                           A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                     Level     Level     Level
                                                                             Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                         5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                              Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

Attachment 5 C-130 Training Requirements
  NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A8X2X048X, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
          representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
          general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
          the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
          identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
  NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
  NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
  NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
  NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
          not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
          Attachment is waived.
  NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at
          DSN 736-7908
5.1 GENERAL FLIGHT CONTROLS (C-130)
5.1.1 Position Indicating Systems
5.1.1.1 Flaps
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.1.1.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -         -
5.1.1.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.1.1.3 Remove / Install Flap Position                                                                                                -         -         -
           Transmitter
5.1.1.1.4 Perform Adjustments                                                                                                           -         -         -
5.1.1.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                             *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.1.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                 -         -         -
5.1.1.2 Flight Control Trim
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.1.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -         -
5.1.1.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.1.2.3 Perform Adjustments                                                                                                           -         -         -
5.1.1.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                             *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.1.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                 -         -         -
5.1.2 Automatic Flight Control Systems
5.1.2.1 E-4 Auto-Pilot
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.1.2.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -         -
5.1.2.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.1.3 Remove / Install
5.1.2.1.3.1 Servo Motor                                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.1.2.1.3.2 Drum and Bracket Assembly                                                                                                   -         -         -
5.1.2.1.3.3 Release Switch                                                                                                              -         -         -
5.1.2.1.4 Perform Cable Tension Adjustments                *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                             *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                 -         -         -
5.1.2.1.7 Perform Bench / Minimum                                                                                                       -         -         -
           Performance Checks
5.1.2.2 AP-105 Auto-Pilot
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.1.2.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -         -


                                                                      64
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.1.2.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.2.3 Remove / Install
5.1.2.2.3.1 Servo Motor                                                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.2.3.2 Drum and Bracket Assembly                                                                                              -         -         -
5.1.2.2.3.3 Release Switch                                                                                                         -         -         -
5.1.2.2.4 Perform Cable Tension Adjustments           *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.1.2.3 AN/AYW-1(V)1 Digital Auto-Pilot
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.1.2.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.1.2.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.3.3 Remove/Install
5.1.2.3.3.1 Servo Motor                                                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.3.3.2 Drum and Bracket Assembly                                                                                              -         -         -
5.1.2.3.3.3 Release Switch                                                                                                         -         -         -
5.1.2.3.3.4 G/A and P/S Switch                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.1.2.3.4 Perform Cable Tension Adjustments           *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.3.5 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.1.2.3.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.2 GENERAL NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
     (C-130)
5.2.1 Flight Director Systems
5.2.1.1 Air Force Standard
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.2.1.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.2.1.1.2 Remove/Install Flight Director Mode                                                                                      -         -         -
           Select (FDMS) Panel
5.2.1.1.3 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
5.2.1.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.2.1.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.2.1.1.6 Perform Bench/Minimum                                                                                                    -         -         -
           Performance Checks
5.2.1.2 FD-109
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.2.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.2.1.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
5.2.1.2.3 Remove/Install
5.2.1.2.3.1 G/A and P/S Switch                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.2.1.2.3.2 Air Data Control (ADC)                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.2.1.2.3.3 Flight Director Mode Select Panel                                                                                      -         -         -
            (FMDS)
5.2.1.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.2.1.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.2.1.2.6 Perform Bench/Minimum                                                                                                    -         -         -
           Performance Checks


                                                                 65
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.2.2 Compass Systems
5.2.2.1 C-12 Compass
          TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.2.2.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.2.2.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
5.2.2.1.3 Remove/Install Flux Valve                                                                                                -         -         -
5.2.2.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.2.2.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.2.2.1.6 Perform Bench/Minimum                                                                                                    -         -         -
           Performance Checks
5.2.2.1.7 Perform Calibration/Compass Swing                                                                                        -         -         -
5.2.2.2 N-1 Compass
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.2.2.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.2.2.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
5.2.2.2.3 Remove/Install
5.2.2.2.3.1 Flux Valve                                                                                                             -         -         -
5.2.2.2.3.2 Indicator                                                                                                              -         -         -
5.2.2.2.4 Adjust Amplifier                                                                                                         -         -         -
5.2.2.2.5 Perform Calibration/Compass Swing                                                                                        -         -         -
5.2.2.2.6 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.2.2.2.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.2.2.2.8 Perform Bench/Minimum                                                                                                    -         -         -
           Performance Checks
5.2.2.3 Standby Compass
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.2.2.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.2.2.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                               -         -         -
5.2.2.3.3 Perform Calibration / Compass Swing                                                                                      -         -         -
5.2.3 Inertial Navigation Systems (INS)
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.2.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.2.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.2.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.2.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.2.4 Self Contained Navigational System
       (SCNS)
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.2.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.2.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.2.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.2.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                           -         -         -
5.3 FLIGHT INSTRUMENTS (C-130)
5.3.1 Pitot/Static System
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.3.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -


                                                                 66
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.3.1.3 Remove/Install
5.3.1.3.1 Static Port                                                                                                              -         -         -
5.3.1.3.2 Pitot Head/Pitot Static Probe               *                                                                            -         -         -
5.3.1.3.3 Differential Pressure Transducer                                                                                         -         -         -
5.3.1.3.4 True Airspeed Indicator                                                                                                  -         -         -
5.3.1.4 Purge System                                                                                                               -         -         -
5.3.1.5 Manufacture Pitot/Static Hoses                                                                                             -         -         -
5.3.1.6 Perform Calibration/Adjustments
5.3.1.6.1 Altimeter/Altimeter-Encoder                 *                                                                            -         -         -
5.3.1.6.2 Airspeed Indicator                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.3.1.7 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.3.1.8 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.3.2 Traffic Avoidance/Vertical Speed
       Indicator (TAVSI)
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.3.2.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.3.3 Accelerometers (G-Meter)
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.3.3.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.3.3.2 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.3.4 Outside Air Temp (OAT)/Free Air Temp
       (FAT)
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.3.4.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.3.4.2 Remove/Install Temp Bulb/Probe                                                                                             -         -         -
5.3.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.3.6.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                           -         -         -
5.4 AIR DATA SYSTEMS (C-130)
5.4.1 Digital Air Data Computer System
       (DADC)
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.4.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.4.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.4.1.3 Remove/Install Static Air Temp Probe                                                                                       -         -         -
5.4.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.4.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.4.1.6 Perform Bench/Minimum Performance                                                                                          -         -         -
         Checks
5.4.2 Standard Central Air Data Computer
       System (SCADC)
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.4.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.4.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.4.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.4.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.4.3 True Airspeed Computer System
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders

                                                                 67
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.4.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.4.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.4.3.3 Remove/Install Total Air Temp Probe                                                                                        -         -         -
5.4.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.4.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.5 DATA RECORDERS (C-130)
5.5.1 Flight Data Recorders, Digital (DFDR)/
       Solid State (SSDR)
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.5.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.5.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.5.1.3 Remove/Install
5.5.1.3.1 Pressure Transducers                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.5.1.3.2 Position Transducers                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.5.1.4 Perform Transducer Adjustments                                                                                             -         -         -
5.5.1.5 Perform Data Download                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.5.1.6 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.5.1.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.6 WARNING SYSTEMS (C-130)
5.6.1 Ground Collision Avoidance System
       (GCAS)
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.6.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.6.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.6.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.6.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.6.2 Altitude Alerter System
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.6.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.6.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.6.2.3 Remove/Install
5.6.2.3.1 Tone Generator                                                                                                           -         -         -
5.6.2.3.2 Speaker                                                                                                                  -         -         -
5.6.2.3.3 Speaker Amplifier                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.6.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.6.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.7 ENGINE/AUXILIARY POWER UNIT
     (APU) INDICATING SYSTEMS (C-130)
5.7.1 Temperature Indicating Systems
5.7.1.1 TIT/MGT/EGT
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.7.1.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.7.1.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                               -         -         -
5.7.1.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.1.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.1.1.5 Perform Bench/Minimum                                                                                                    -         -         -


                                                                 68
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

          Performance Checks
5.7.1.2 Oil Temperature
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.7.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.7.1.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                               -         -         -
5.7.1.2.3 Remove/Install Temperature Bulb                                                                                          -         -         -
5.7.1.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.2 Tachometer
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.7.2.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.2.2 Remove/Install Tachometer Generator           *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.2.4 Perform Bench/Minimum Performance                                                                                          -         -         -
         Checks
5.7.3 Oil Pressure
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.7.3.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.3.2 Remove/Install Pressure Transmitters          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.3.3 Perform Adjustment of Pressure                                                                                             -         -         -
         Transmitter
5.7.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.3.6 Perform Bench/Minimum Performance                                                                                          -         -         -
         Checks
5.7.4 Fuel Flow
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.7.4.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.4.2 Remove/Install Fuel Flow Transmitters                                                                                      -         -         -
5.7.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.4.5 Perform Bench/Minimum Performance                                                                                          -         -         -
         Checks
5.7.5 Torque/Horsepower
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.7.5.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.5.2 Perform Calibration                           *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.5.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.5.5 Perform Bench/Minimum Performance                                                                                          -         -         -
         Checks
5.7.6 Oil Cooler Flap
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.7.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.7.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.6.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.7.7 Oil Quantity
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders

                                                                 69
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.7.7.1  Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.7.2  Remove/Install Transmitter                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.7.3  Perform Calibration / Adjustments                                                                                         -         -         -
5.7.7.4  Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.7.7.5  Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.7.6  Perform Bench/Minimum Performance                                                                                         -         -         -
         Checks
5.7.8 Type I/II Liquid Crystal Display
       Instruments
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.7.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.7.8.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.7.8.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.7.8.4 Perform Bench/Minimum Performance                                                                                          -         -         -
         Checks
5.8 LIQUID QUANTITY INDICATION
     (C-130)
5.8.1 Fuel Quantity
5.8.1.1 Analog
         TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.8.1.1.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                               -         -         -
5.8.1.1.2 Remove/Install Probes                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.8.1.1.3 Build/Repair System Wiring and                                                                                           -         -         -
           Connectors
5.8.1.1.4 Perform Calibration
5.8.1.1.4.1 Tank Indicator                            *                                                                            -         -         -
5.8.1.1.4.2 Totalizer                                                                                                              -         -         -
5.8.1.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.8.1.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.8.1.2 Digital
5.8.1.2.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                               -         -         -
5.8.1.2.2 Remove and Install Probes                                                                                                -         -         -
5.8.1.2.3 Build / Repair System Wiring and                                                                                         -         -         -
           Connectors
5.8.1.2.4 Perform Calibration Tank Indicator          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.8.1.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.8.1.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.8.2 Liquid Oxygen Quantity (LOX)
       TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.8.2.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.8.2.2 Perform Calibration                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.8.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.8.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
5.9 HYDRAULIC PRESSURE INDICATING
     SYSTEM (C-130)
     TR: Applicable C-130 TOs
5.9.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          -         -         -

                                                                 70
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.9.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                   -         -         -
5.9.3 Remove/Install Pressure Transmitters            *                                                                            -         -         -
5.9.4 Perform Adjustment of Pressure                                                                                               -         -         -
       Transmitter
5.9.5 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                            -         -         -
5.9.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                           *                                                                 -         -         -
5.1 MISCELLANEOUS (C-130)
5.10.1 Fuel Pressure
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.10.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.10.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                -         -         -
5.10.1.3 Remove/Install Pressure Transmitter          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.10.1.4 Perform Adjustment of Pressure                                                                                            -         -         -
          Transmitter
5.10.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.10.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.10.2 In-Flight Refueling System M/HC-
        130P
5.10.2.1 Fuel Flow
          TR: Applicable C-130 Technical
          Orders
5.10.2.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.10.2.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -         -
5.10.2.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.10.2.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                        -         -         -
5.10.2.2 Fuel Pressure
          TR: Applicable C-130 Technical
          Orders
5.10.2.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.10.2.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -         -
5.10.2.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.10.2.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                        -         -         -
5.11 USE TEST EQUIPMENT (C-130)
5.11.1 Instrument Test Set                                                                                                         -         -         -
5.11.2 C-12 Compass Flight Line Test Set                                                                                           -         -         -
5.11.3 Flight Director Test Set                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.11.4 Ruggedized Service Unit (RSU)                                                                                               -         -         -
5.11.5 Instrument Switching Unit Tester                                                                                            -         -         -
5.11.6 Fuel Quantity Adapter Breakout Box                                                                                          -         -         -
5.11.7 HSI Test Set                                                                                                                -         -         -
5.11.8 Universal ADI Test Set                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.11.9 Portable Interface Unit (PIU)                                                                                               -         -         -
5.12 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
      MAINTENANCE (C-130J)
      TR: Applicable C-130 TOs
5.12.1 Introduction to Aircraft/Airframe                                                                                           -         -         -
        Familiarization

                                                                 71
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.12.2 Make Aircraft Safe for Maintenance             *                                                                            -         -         -
5.12.3 Use Safetying Devices                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.12.4 Major Structural Areas                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.12.5 Major Aircraft Systems                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.12.6 Flightline Safety/Precautions                                                                                               -         -         -
5.13 GENERAL MAINTENANCE TASKS
      (C-130J)
      TR: TO 00-20 Series/Applicable C-130
      TOs
5.13.1 Dropped Object Prevention Program                                                                                           -         -         -
        (DOPP)
5.13.2 Defensive Systems (DS) Familiarization                                                                                      -         -         -
5.13.3 Statically Ground Aircraft                                                                                                  -         -         -
5.13.4 Perform Aircraft Wash                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.13.5 Open/Close Engine Cowling                                                                                                   -         -         -
5.13.6 Remove/Install Aircraft Maintenance                                                                                         -         -         -
        Access Panels
5.13.7 Perform Aircraft Marshaling Procedures                                                                                      -         -         -
5.13.8 Deactivate Cargo Door/Ramp                     *                                                                            -         -         -
5.13.9 Recover/Launch Aircraft                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.13.10 Use Aircraft Interphone System                                                                                             -         -         -
5.13.11 Jacking Team Member                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.13.12 Refuel/Defuel Team Member                                                                                                  -         -         -
5.13.13 Tow Aircraft
5.13.13.1 Perform Wing/Tail Walker Duties                                                                                          -         -         -
5.13.13.2 Brake Operator                                                                                                           -         -         -
5.13.14 Perform Aircraft Inspections
5.13.14.1 Periodic/Isochronal                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.13.14.2 Home Station Check (HSC)                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.13.15 Apply/Disconnect Aircraft Electrical
          Power
5.13.15.1 Auxiliary Power Unit (APU)                                                                                               -         -         -
5.13.15.2 Generator/Powered AGE                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14 GENERAL FLIGHT CONTROLS
      (C-130J)
5.14.1 Position Indicating Systems
5.14.1.1 Flaps
          TR: Applicable C-130 Technical
          Orders
5.14.1.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.14.1.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.1.3 Remove/Install Flap Position               *                                                                            -         -         -
            Transmitters
5.14.1.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -         -         -
5.14.1.1.6 Perform Adjustments                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.2 Flight Control Trim

                                                                 72
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

          TR: Applicable C-130 Technical
          Orders
5.14.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.14.1.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.2.3 Remove/Install/Adjust Elevator             *                                                                            -         -         -
            Trim Automatic Position Switch
5.14.1.2.4 Perform Adjustments                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -         -         -
5.14.1.3 Flight Controls
5.14.1.3.1 Remove/Install Aileron Control                                                                                          -         -         -
            Wheel
5.14.1.3.2 Perform Operational Checks on                                                                                           -         -         -
Aileron Control Wheel Switches
5.14.1.4 Digital Autopilot/Flight Director
          (DA/FD) (C-130J)
          TR: Applicable C-130 Technical
          Orders
5.14.1.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.14.1.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.4.3 Remove/Install
5.14.1.4.3.1 Servo Motor                              *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.4.3.2 Drum and Bracket Assembly                                                                                             -         -         -
5.14.1.4.3.3 Automatic Flight Control Processor       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.4.4 Perform Cable Tension Adjustments          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.4.5 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.4.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -         -         -
5.14.1.5 Auto Throttle (C-130J)
5.14.1.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.14.1.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.5.3 Remove/Install Throttle Quadrant                      *                                                                 -         -         -
5.14.1.5.4 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.14.1.5.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -         -         -
5.15 GENERAL COMPUTER COMPLEX
      (C-130J)
5.15.1 Controls and Displays
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.15.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.15.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.1.3 Remove/Install Color Multi-purpose           *                                                                            -         -         -
          Display Unit
5.15.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.15.2 Data Transfer System
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.15.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.15.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -

                                                                 73
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.15.2.3 Upload/Download Data                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.15.3 Mission Computers
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.15.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.15.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.3.3 Remove/Install Bus Interface Unit            *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.15.3.6 Operate
5.15.3.6.1 PMA/DTADS                                  *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.3.6.2 CNBP                                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.15.3.6.3 CNIMU                                                                                                                   -         -         -
5.15.3.7 Load Software                                *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.4 Standby Instrumentation
5.15.4.1 Standby Compass
          TR: Applicable C-130 Technical
          Orders
5.15.4.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.15.4.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -         -
5.15.4.1.3 Perform Calibration                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.15.4.2 Inclinometer
5.15.4.2.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -         -         -
5.15.4.2.2 Remove/Install Inclinometer                *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.5 Heads-Up Display (HUD) (C-130J)
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.15.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.15.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.5.3 Remove/Install
5.15.5.3.1 HUD Overhead Unit                          *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.5.3.2 HUD Combiner                               *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.5.3.3 Pitch Yaw Adjustment Module                                                                                             -         -         -
5.15.5.4 Perform Calibration/Adjustments                                                                                           -         -         -
5.15.5.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.5.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                -         -         -
5.15.6 Angle Of Attack (AOA) (C-130J)
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.15.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.15.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.6.3 Remove/Install Angle of Attack               *                                                                            -         -         -
          Transducer
5.15.6.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.6.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.15.7 Standby ADI
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders


                                                                 74
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.15.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.15.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.15.7.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.16 AIR DATA SYSTEMS (C-130J)
5.16.1 Distributed Air Data System (DADS)
        (C-130J)
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.16.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.16.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.16.1.3 Remove / Install
5.16.1.3.1 Total Air Temp Probe                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.16.1.3.2 Central Air Data Computer                  *                                                                            -         -         -
5.16.1.3.3 Static Pressure Transducer Unit            *                                                                            -         -         -
5.16.1.3.4 Pitot / Static Probe                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.16.1.3.5 Airspeed Altimeter Indicator               *                                                                            -         -         -
5.16.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.16.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.17 DATA RECORDERS (C-130J)
5.17.1 Flight Data Recorders / Digital (DFDR) /
        Solid State (SSFDR)
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.17.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.17.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.17.1.3 Remove / Install
5.17.1.3.1 Tri-axis Accelerometer                                                                                                  -         -         -
5.17.1.3.1 Position Transducers                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.17.1.4 Perform Transducer Adjustments                                                                                            -         -         -
5.17.1.5 Perform Download                             *                                                                            -         -         -
5.17.1.6 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.17.1.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.18 WARNING SYSTEMS (C-130J)
5.18.1 Stall Warning / Prevention System
        (C-130J)
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.18.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.18.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.18.1.3 Remove / Install
5.18.1.3.1 Stick Pusher Actuator                      *                                                                            -         -         -
5.18.1.3.2 Stick Pusher Capstan                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.18.1.3.3 Stick Pusher Control Cables                                                                                             -         -         -
5.18.1.3.4 Stick Pusher Sector Assembly                                                                                            -         -         -
5.18.1.4 Perform Cable Tension Adjustments            *                                                                            -         -         -
5.18.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.18.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.18.2 Alert / Caution and Warning System
        (ACAWS) (C-130J)


                                                                 75
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.18.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.18.2.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.18.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.18.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.18.3 Ground Collision Avoidance System
        (GCAS) / Terrain Awareness and
        Warning System (TAWS)
5.18.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.18.3.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.18.3.3 Perform Database Loading Procedure           *                                                                            -         -         -
5.18.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.18.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.19 LIQUID QUANTITY INDICATION
      (C-130J)
5.19.1 Fuel Management System (C-130J)
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.19.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.19.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.19.1.3 Remove / Install
5.19.1.3.1 Fuel Management Controller                 *                                                                            -         -         -
5.19.1.3.2 Externally Mounted Fuel Probe /                                                                                         -         -         -
           Compensator
5.19.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.19.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.19.2 Liquid Oxygen (LOX)
5.19.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.19.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.19.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.19.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.19.3 Pressure Indicating
5.19.3.1 Hydraulic Pressure Indicating System
5.19.3.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.19.3.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -         -         -
5.19.3.1.3 Remove / Install Pressure                                                                                               -         -         -
           Transmitter
5.19.3.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.19.3.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -         -         -
5.19.3.2 Fuel Pressure Indicating System
5.19.3.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.19.3.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -         -         -
5.19.3.2.3 Remove / Install Pressure                  *                                                                            -         -         -
           Transmitter
5.19.3.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                       *                                                                            -         -         -
5.19.3.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -         -         -
5.20 REMOVE / INSTALL STANDARD


                                                                 76
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

     MOUNT (C-130J)
     TR: Applicable C-130 TOs
5.20.1 Type 1                                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.20.2 Type 2                                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.20.3 Type 3                                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.20.4 Type 4                                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.20.5 Type 5                                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.21 USE TEST EQUIPMENT (C-130J)
5.21.1 Fuel Quantity Adapter Breakout Box                                                                                          -         -         -
5.21.2 Pitch Yaw Adjustment Module Test Set                                                                                        -         -         -
5.22 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
      MAINTENANCE (C-130 AMP)
      TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
      Orders
5.22.1 Aircraft AMP Familiarization
5.22.1.1 Aircraft safe for maintenance                *                                                                            -         -         -
5.22.1.2 Select/use safetying devices                                                                                              -         -         -
5.22.1.3 Major structural areas                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.22.1.4 Major systems                                                                                                             -         -         -
5.23 GENERAL MAINTENANCE TASKS
      (C-130 AMP)
      TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
      Orders
5.23.1 Technical order familiarization                                                                                             -         -         -
5.23.2 Operate Interactive Electronic Technical       *                                                                            -         -         -
        Manual (IETM's) IMIS
5.23.3 Flightline safety/precautions/ security                                                                                     -         -         -
5.23.4 Introduction to aircraft/airframe                                                                                           -         -         -
        familiarization
5.23.5 Inspect/operate portable external                                                                                           -         -         -
        electrical power unit
5.23.6 Defensive systems (DS) familiarization                                                                                      -         -         -
        on applicable aircraft
5.23.7 Statically ground aircraft                                                                                                  -         -         -
5.23.8 Identify Facts and Operational Principles                                                                                   -         -         -
        of Debrief
5.23.9 Apply/disconnect external electrical           *                                                                            -         -         -
        power unit
5.23.10 Jack Aircraft
         TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
         Orders
5.23.10.1 Jacking supervisor                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.23.10.2 Jacking team member                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.23.11 Perform refuel/defuel team member                                                                                          -         -         -
         duties
5.23.12 Open and close engine cowling                                                                                              -         -         -
5.23.13 Remove and install aircraft                                                                                                -         -         -
         maintenance access panels

                                                                 77
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.23.14  Perform aircraft marshalling procedures                                                                                   -         -         -
5.23.15  Operate Avionics Cooling Systems             *                                                                            -         -         -
5.23.16  Inspect Fiber Optic Cable                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.23.17  Test Fiber Optic Cable                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.23.18  Clean Fiber Optic Cable                                                                                                   -         -         -
5.23.19  Tow Aircraft
         TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
         Orders
5.23.19.1 Wing/tail walker duties                                                                                                  -         -         -
5.23.19.2 Brake operator                                                                                                           -         -         -
5.23.20 Operate cargo doors                                                                                                        -         -         -
5.23.21 Deactivate cargo doors                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.23.22 Open/close radomes                                                                                                         -         -         -
5.23.23 Recover/Launch aircraft                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.23.24 Perform Aircraft Inspections
         TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
         Orders
5.23.24.1 Phase/periodic/ISO                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.23.24.2 Home Station Check (HSC)                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.23.24.3 Basic post-flight/preflight/ thruflight                                                                                  -         -         -
5.23.25 Apply Power
         TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
         Orders
5.23.25.1 APU                                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.23.25.2 Generator/Powered AGE                                                                                                    -         -         -
5.23.26 Digital Intercom System
         TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
         Orders
5.23.26.1 Operate System                                                                                                           -         -         -
5.23.27 Flight Management/ Inertial
         Navigation System FMS/INS
5.23.27.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.23.27.2 Perform Operational Check of Flight         *                                                                            -         -         -
           Management System
5.23.27.3 Perform Operational Check of Inertial       *                                                                            -         -         -
           Navigation System
5.23.27.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.23.27.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.24 MULTI-FUNCTION DISPLAY
      SYSTEMS (C-130 AMP)
5.24.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
5.24.2 Perform operational check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
5.24.3 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                            -         -         -
5.24.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                 -         -         -
5.24.5 Heads Up Display
5.24.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.24.5.2 Perform operational check                    *                                                                            -         -         -

                                                                 78
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.24.5.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.24.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.24.6 Cursor Control Device
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP technical
        orders
5.24.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.24.6.2 Perform operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.24.6.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.24.6.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                          -         -         -
5.24.7 Communication / Navigation Control
        Panel System
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
        Orders
5.24.7.1 Operate System                                                                                                            -         -         -
5.24.8 Caution and Warning Advisory System
5.24.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.24.8.2 Operate System                               *                                                                            -         -         -
5.24.9 Dual Band Ultra High Frequency (UHF)
        and Very High Frequency (VHF) Radio
        (AN / ARC-210)
        TR: Applicable C-130 Technical Orders
5.24.9.1 Operates system                                                                                                           -         -         -
5.25 COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
      (C-130 AMP)
5.25.1 Digital Intercom System
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
        Orders
5.25.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.25.2 Multi-Purpose Control Display Unit
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
        Orders
5.25.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.25.2.2 Perform operational checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.25.3 Data Transfer Device
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
        Orders
5.25.3.1 Use and loading of software                                                                                               -         -         -
5.25.3.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.25.3.3 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.25.4 Aircraft Interface Unit
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
        Orders
5.25.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.25.4.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -

                                                                 79
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.25.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.25.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                -         -         -
5.25.5 Engine Interface Unit
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
        Orders
5.25.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.25.5.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.5.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.25.6 Automatic Flight Control Systems
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
        Orders
5.25.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.25.6.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.6.3 Remove and Install AFCS components           *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.6.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.6.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                -         -         -
5.25.7 Air Data System
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
        Orders
5.25.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.25.7.2 Remove and Install Air Data Smart                                                                                         -         -         -
         Probes
5.25.7.3 Perform Operation Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.7.4 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.7.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
5.25.8 Integrated Cockpit Voice Data Recorder
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
        Orders
5.25.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.25.8.2 Perform operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -
5.25.8.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.25.8.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                          -         -         -
5.25.9 Hydraulic system Panel
        TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
        Orders
5.25.9.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
5.25.10 Integrated Standby instrumentation
         System
         TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
         Orders
5.25.10.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.25.10.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                -         -         -
5.25.11 Engine Indication
         TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
         Orders
5.25.11.1 Amp Theory of Operation                                                                                                  -         -         -


                                                                 80
                                               C-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

5.25.11.2 Amp Engine Isolation                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.25.11.3 Perform Operational Check of                *                                                                            -         -         -
          EIU/AIU
5.25.11.4 Remove/Install                              *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.11.5 Perform Advanced troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.25.12 Mission Processor
         TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
         Orders
5.25.12.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.25.12.2 Remove/Install Line Replacement                                                                                          -         -         -
          Modules
5.25.12.3 Perform operational check                   *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.12.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.12.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
5.25.13 System Mass Memory
         TR: Applicable C-130 AMP Technical
         Orders
5.25.13.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
5.25.13.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                -         -         -
5.25.13.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                     -         -         -
5.25.13.4 Remove/Install Disk Cartridge                                                                                            -         -         -
5.25.13.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                         -         -         -




                                                                 81
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency Codes
                                                        2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          A         B       C
                                                           A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                     Level     Level     Level
                                                                             Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                         5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                              Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

Attachment 6 C-21, C-27, C-37, C-39 and C-40 Training Requirements
  NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A8X2X048X, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
          representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
          general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
          the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
          identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
  NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
  NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
  NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
  NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
          not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
          Attachment is waived.
  NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at
          DSN 736-7908
6.1 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
     MAINTENANCE (C-40C)
6.1.1 Aircraft Familiarization
       TR: Applicable C-40C TOs
6.1.1.1 Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.1.1.2 Select/Use Safetying Devices                                                                                                    -         -         -
6.1.1.3 Major Structural Areas                                                                                                          -         -         -
6.1.1.4 Major Systems                                                                                                                   -         -         -
6.1.1.5 Aircraft Egress Procedures                         *                                                                            -         -         -
6.2 GENERAL MAINTENANCE TASKS
     (C-40C)
      TR: Applicable C-40C TOs
6.2.1 Technical Order Familiarization                                                                                                   -         -         -
6.2.2 Flightline Safety/Precautions/Security                                                                                            -         -         -
6.2.3 Introduction to Aircraft/Airframe                                                                                                 -         -         -
       Familiarization
6.2.4 Inspect/Operate Portable External                                                                                                 -         -         -
       Electrical Power Unit
6.2.5 Inspect/Use Ground Maintenance Stands                                                                                             -         -         -
6.2.6 Dropped Object Prevention Program                                                                                                 -         -         -
       (DOPP)
6.2.7 Defensive Systems (DS) Familiarization on                                                                                         -         -         -
       Applicable Aircraft
6.2.8 Statically Ground Aircraft                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.2.9 Perform Aircraft Wash                                                                                                             -         -         -
6.2.10 Operate Portable Maintenance Aide                   *                                                                            -         -         -
        (PMA)
6.2.11 Jack Aircraft
        TR: Applicable C-40C TOs
6.2.11.1 Jacking Supervisor                                                                                                             -         -         -
6.2.11.2 Jacking Team Member                                                                                                            -         -         -
6.2.12 Perform Refuel/Defuel Team Member                                                                                                -         -         -
        Duties
6.2.13 Open and Close Engine Cowling                                                                                                    -         -         -
6.2.14 Remove and Install Aircraft Maintenance                                                                                          -         -         -
        Access Panels

                                                                      82
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.2.15 Perform Aircraft Marshalling Procedures                                                                                      -         -         -
6.2.16 Tow Aircraft
        TR: Applicable C-40C TOs
6.2.16.1 Wing/Tail Walker Duties                                                                                                    -         -         -
6.2.17 Brake Operator                                                                                                               -         -         -
6.2.18 Operate Cargo Doors                                                                                                          -         -         -
6.2.19 Deactivate Cargo Doors                                                                                                       -         -         -
6.2.20 Open/Close Radomes                              *                                                                            -         -         -
6.2.21 Recover/Launch Aircraft                                                                                                      -         -         -
6.2.22 Perform Aircraft Inspections
        TR: Applicable C-40C TOs
6.2.22.1 Phase/Periodic/ISO                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.2.22.2 Home Station Check (HSC)                                                                                                   -         -         -
6.2.22.3 Basic Post-Flight/Pre-Flight/Thruflight                                                                                    -         -         -
6.2.23 Apply Power to Aircraft
        TR: Applicable C-40C TOs
6.2.23.1 Generator/Powered AGE                         *                                                                            -         -         -
6.3 AUTOFLIGHT
     TR: C-40 AMM, CHAPTER 22
6.3.1 AutoThrottle System
6.3.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.3.1.2 Perform Operational Check                       *                                                                           -         -         -
6.3.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.3.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.3.2 Yaw Damper System
6.3.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.3.2.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.3.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.3.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.3.3 Digital Flight Control System (DFCS)
6.3.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.3.3.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.3.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.3.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.3.4 AutoFlight
6.3.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.3.4.2 Perform Operational Check                       *                                                                           -         -         -
6.3.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.3.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.4 FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
     TR: C-40C AMM, CHAPTER 27
6.4.1 Stall Warning System
6.4.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.4.1.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.4.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.4.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -

                                                                  83
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.4.2 Elevator Feel System
6.4.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.4.2.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.4.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.4.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.5 FUEL SYSTEMS
     TR: C-40C AMM, CHAPTER 28
6.5.1 Fuel Quantity Indicating System (FQIS)
6.5.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.5.1.2 Perform Operational Check                       *                                                                           -         -         -
6.5.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.5.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.6 ICE AND RAIN PROTECTION
     TR: C-40C AMM, CHAPTER 30
6.6.1 Pitot/ Static Probe And Alpha Vane Anti-
       Ice
6.6.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.6.1.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.6.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.6.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.7 INDICATING AND RECORDING
     SYSTEMS
     TR: C-40C AMM, CHAPTER 31
6.7.1 Clocks
6.7.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.7.1.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.7.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.7.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.7.2 Flight Data Recorder (FDR)
6.7.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.7.2.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.7.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.7.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.7.3 Take-Off Warning And Landing System
6.7.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.7.3.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.7.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.7.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.7.4 Common Display System
6.7.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.7.4.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.7.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.7.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.8 NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
     TR: C-40C AMM, CHAPTER 34
6.8.1 Static And Total Air Pressure System

                                                                  84
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.8.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.8.1.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.8.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.8.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.8.2 Air Data Instruments
6.8.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.8.2.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.8.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.8.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.8.3 Overspeed Warning System
6.8.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.8.3.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.8.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.8.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.8.4 Air Data / Inertial Reference System
       (ADIRS)
6.8.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.8.4.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.8.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.8.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.8.5 Magnetic Compass System
6.8.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.8.5.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.8.5.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.8.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.8.6 Stby Attitude Reference System (SARS)
6.8.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.8.6.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.8.6.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.8.6.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.8.7 Heads-Up Display System (HDS)
6.8.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.8.7.2 Perform Operational Check                       *                                                                           -         -         -
6.8.7.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.8.7.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.8.8 Ground Proximity Warning System
       (GPWS)
6.8.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.8.8.2 Perform Operational Check                       *                                                                           -         -         -
6.8.8.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.8.8.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.8.9 Flight Management Computer System
       (FMCS)
6.8.9.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.8.9.2 Perform Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.8.9.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -

                                                                  85
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.8.9.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.9 ENGINE FUEL AND CONTROL
     TR: C-40 AMM, CHAPTER 73
6.9.1 Fuel Indicating
6.9.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.9.1.2 Perform Operational Check                       *                                                                           -         -         -
6.9.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                           -         -         -
6.9.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.10 ENGINE - INDICATING
     TR: C-40 AMM, CHAPTER 77
6.10.1 Engine Indicating
6.10.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.10.1.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.10.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                           -         -         -
6.10.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.11 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
     MAINTENANCE (C-37)
     TR: GV Maintenance Manual
6.11.1 Introduction to Aircraft / Airframe                                                                                          -         -         -
        Familiarization
6.11.2 Major Structural Areas                                                                                                       -         -         -
6.11.3 Aircraft Egress Procedures                                                                                                   -         -         -
6.11.4 Welcome / Orientation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.11.5 Inspect / Operate Portable External                                                                                          -         -         -
        Electrical Power Unit
6.11.6 Inspect / Use Ground Maintenance Stands                                                                                      -         -         -
6.12 GENERAL MAINTENANCE TASKS
       (C-37)
6.12.1 Ensure Aircraft Safe for Maintenance            *                                                                            -         -         -
6.12.2 Technical Order Familiarization                                                                                              -         -         -
6.12.3 Flightline Safety / Precautions / Security                                                                                   -         -         -
6.12.4 Dropped Object Prevention Program                                                                                            -         -         -
         (DOPP)
6.12.5 Defensive Systems (DS) Familiarization                                                                                       -         -         -
6.12.6 Statically Ground Aircraft                                                                                                   -         -         -
6.12.7 Apply / Disconnect External Electrical          *                                                                            -         -         -
         Power Unit
6.12.8 Perform Wing / Tail Walker Duties                                                                                            -         -         -
6.12.9 Perform Jacking Team Member                                                                                                  -         -         -
6.12.10 Perform Refuel / Defuel Team Member                                                                                         -         -         -
          Duties
6.12.11 Open / Close Engine Cowling                                                                                                 -         -         -
6.12.12 Remove / Install Aircraft Maintenance          *                                                                            -         -         -
          Access Panels
6.12.13 Use Interphone System                                                                                                       -         -         -
6.12.14 Perform Aircraft Marshalling                                                                                                -         -         -
          Procedures

                                                                  86
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.12.15 Team Communications                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.13 GENERAL FLIGHT CONTROLS (C-37)
6.13.1 Automatic Flight Control Systems
        TR: 22-10-00
6.13.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.13.1.2 Perform Operational Check
6.13.1.2.1 Autopilot System                            *                                                                            -         -         -
6.13.1.2.2 Roll and Heading Control System             *                                                                            -         -         -
6.13.1.2.3 Pitch System                                *                                                                            -         -         -
6.13.1.2.4 MISTRIM / Aileron Message Test              *                                                                            -         -         -
6.13.1.3 Remove / Install
6.13.1.3.1 Aileron Servo and Bracket Assembly                                                                                       -         -         -
6.13.1.3.2 Aileron Servo Assembly                                                                                                   -         -         -
6.13.1.3.3 Elevator Servo and Bracket Assembly                                                                                      -         -         -
6.13.1.3.4 Elevator Servo Components                                                                                                -         -         -
           Assembly
6.13.1.3.5 Elevator Trim Servo and Bracket                                                                                          -         -         -
           Assembly
6.13.1.3.6 Elevator Trim Servo Assembly                                                                                             -         -         -
6.13.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.13.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting              *                                                                            -         -         -
6.13.2 Yaw Damper System
        TR: 22-14-00
6.13.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.13.2.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.13.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.13.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.13.3 AutoThrottle System
        TR: 22-30-00
6.13.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.13.3.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.13.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.13.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.14 GENERAL COMPUTER COMPLEX
      (C-37)
6.14.1 Recorders-Maintenance Data Acquisition
        System
        TR: 31-32-00
6.14.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.14.1.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.14.1.3 Download Maintenance Data                                                                                                  -         -         -
          Acquisition Unit
6.14.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.14.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.14.2 Central Display Systems
        TR: 31-60-00
6.14.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -

                                                                  87
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.14.2.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.14.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.14.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
6.14.3 Data Loader System
        TR: 34-62-00
6.14.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.14.3.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.14.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.14.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.14.4 Flight Management System
        TR: 34-60-00
6.14.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.14.4.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.14.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.14.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.14.5 Central Computers
        TR: 31-40-00
6.14.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.14.5.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.14.5.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.14.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.14.6 ASCB Bus
6.14.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.15 GENERAL NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
      (C-37)
6.15.1 Attitude and Direction System
        TR: 34-20-00
6.15.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.15.1.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.15.1.3 Remove / Install
6.15.1.3.1 Flux Detector Valve                                                                                                      -         -         -
6.15.1.3.2 Magnetic Compensator                                                                                                     -         -         -
6.15.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.15.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.15.2 Reference System
        TR: 34-42-00
6.15.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.15.2.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.15.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.15.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.15.3 Flight Decks / CSO Station Clocks
        TR: 31-22-00
6.15.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.15.3.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.15.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.15.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -


                                                                  88
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.16 FLIGHT INSTRUMENTS (C-37)
      TR: TO 34-12-01
6.16.1 Pitot / Static System
6.16.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.16.1.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.16.1.3 Perform Leak Test                             *                                                                            -         -         -
6.16.1.4 Remove / Install
6.16.1.4.1 Micro Air Data Computer                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.16.1.4.2 Pitot / Static Probe                                                                                                     -         -         -
6.16.1.4.3 Total Temperature Probe                                                                                                  -         -         -
6.16.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.16.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
6.16.2 Heads Up Display (HUD) System
        TR: 34-26-00
6.16.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.16.2.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.16.2.3 Remove / Install
6.16.2.3.1 Overhead Unit                                                                                                            -         -         -
6.16.2.3.2 Combiner Unit                                                                                                            -         -         -
6.16.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.16.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.17 DIGITAL FLIGHT DATA RECORDER
      SYSTEM (C-37)
      TR: TO 31-31-00
6.17.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          -         -         -
6.17.2 Perform Operational Check                       *                                                                            -         -         -
6.17.3 Remove / Install
6.17.3.1 Flight Data Recorder (FDR)                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.17.3.2 Underwater Beacon                             *                                                                            -         -         -
6.17.4 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                            -         -         -
6.17.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                  -         -         -
6.18 WARNING SYSTEMS (C-37)
6.18.1 Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning
        System
        TR: 34-46-00
6.18.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.18.1.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.18.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.18.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.18.2 Central Warning System
6.18.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.18.2.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.18.2.3 Remove / Install
6.18.2.3.1 Fault Warning Computer                                                                                                   -         -         -
6.18.2.3.2 Checklist Module                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.18.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -

                                                                  89
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.18.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.19 FUEL QUANTITY MEASURING /
      INDICATION SYSTEM (C-37)
      TR: TO 28-41-00
6.19.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          -         -         -
6.19.2 Perform Operational Check                       *                                                                            -         -         -
6.19.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                            -         -         -
6.19.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                  -         -         -
6.20 BRAKE TEMPERATURE INDICATING
      SYSTEM (C-37)
      TR: TO 32-47-03
6.20.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          -         -         -
6.20.2 Perform Operational Check                       *                                                                            -         -         -
6.20.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                            -         -         -
6.20.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                  -         -         -
6.21 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
      MAINTENANCE (C-27J)
      TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.21.1 Introduction to Aircraft / Airframe                                                                                          -         -         -
        Familiarization
6.21.2 Make / Ensure Aircraft Safe for                 *                                                                            -         -         -
        Maintenance
6.21.3 Select / Use Safetying Devices                                                                                               -         -         -
6.21.4 Aircraft Familiarization of Major                                                                                            -         -         -
        Structural Areas
6.21.5 Aircraft Familiarization of Major Aircraft                                                                                   -         -         -
        Systems
6.21.6 Flightline Safety / Precautions / Security                                                                                   -         -         -
6.22 GENERAL MAINTENANCE TASKS
      (C-27J)
     TR: TO 00-20 Series / Applicable C-27J TOs
6.22.1 Dropped Object Prevention Program                                                                                            -         -         -
        (DOPP)
6.22.2 Aircraft Defensive Systems (DS)                                                                                              -         -         -
        Familiarization
6.22.3 Statically Ground Aircraft                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.22.4 Perform Aircraft Wash Team Member                                                                                            -         -         -
        Duties
6.22.5 Open / Close Engine Cowling                                                                                                  -         -         -
6.22.6 Remove / Install Aircraft Maintenance                                                                                        -         -         -
        Access Panels
6.22.7 Perform Aircraft Marshaling Procedures                                                                                       -         -         -
6.22.8 Deactivate Cargo Door / Ramp                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.22.9 Aircraft Recover / Launch Team Duties                                                                                        -         -         -
6.22.10 Use Aircraft Interphone System                                                                                              -         -         -
6.22.11 Jacking Team Member                                                                                                         -         -         -
6.22.12 Refuel / Defuel Team Member                                                                                                 -         -         -


                                                                  90
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.22.13 Perform Wing / Tail Walker Duties                                                                                           -         -         -
6.22.14 Tow Team Brake Operator Duties                                                                                              -         -         -
6.22.15 Connect / Disconnect External Power            *                                                                            -         -         -
          Supply / Source
6.22.16 Inspect / Use Ground Maintenance                                                                                            -         -         -
          Stands
6.22.17 Perform Aircraft Inspections
6.22.17.1 Periodic / Phase / Isochronal Work                                                                                        -         -         -
            Groups
6.22.17.2 Home Station Check (HSC)                                                                                                  -         -         -
6.22.17.3 Special / Acceptance Inspections                                                                                          -         -         -
6.23 GENERAL FLIGHT CONTROLS (C-27J)
6.23.1 Position Indicating Systems
6.23.1.1 Flaps
          TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.23.1.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
6.23.1.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
6.23.1.1.3 Remove / Install Flap Position                                                                                           -         -         -
            Transmitter
6.23.1.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
6.23.1.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
6.23.1.1.6 Perform Adjustments                                    *                                                                 -         -         -
6.23.1.2 Flight Control Trim
          TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.23.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
6.23.1.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
6.23.1.2.3 Remove / Install / Adjust Elevator                                                                                       -         -         -
            Trim Automatic Position Switch
6.23.1.2.4 Perform Adjustments                                   *                                                                  -         -         -
6.23.1.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
6.23.1.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                 -         -         -
6.23.1.3 Flight Controls
          TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.23.1.3.1 Remove / Install Aileron Control                                                                                         -         -         -
            Wheel
6.23.1.3.2 Perform Operational Checks on                                                                                            -         -         -
            Aileron Control Wheel Switches
6.23.1.4 Digital Autopilot / Flight Director
          (DA / FD) (C-27J)
          TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.23.1.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
6.23.1.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
6.23.1.4.3 Remove / Install
6.23.1.4.3.1 Servo Motor                                                                                                            -         -         -
6.23.1.4.3.2 Drum and Bracket Assembly                                                                                              -         -         -
6.23.1.4.3.3 Automatic Flight Control Processor        *                                                                            -         -         -
6.23.1.4.4 Perform Cable Tension Adjustments                                                                                        -         -         -

                                                                  91
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.23.1.4.5 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
6.23.1.4.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                  -         -         -
6.23.1.5 AutoThrottle (C-27J)
          TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.23.1.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
6.23.1.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
6.23.1.5.3 Remove / Install Throttle Quadrant                                                                                       -         -         -
6.23.1.5.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                            -         -         -
6.23.1.5.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                  -         -         -
6.24 GENERAL COMPUTER COMPLEX
      (C-27J)
6.24.1 Controls and Displays
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.24.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.24.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.24.1.3 Remove / Install Color Multi-purpose                                                                                       -         -         -
          Display Unit
6.24.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.24.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.24.2 Dual Slotted Data Transfer System
        (DSDTS)
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.24.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.24.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.24.2.3 Upload / Download Data                                  *                                                                  -         -         -
6.24.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.24.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
6.24.3 Integration System / Mission Computer
        System (MCS)
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.24.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.24.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.24.3.3 Remove / Install Bus Interface Unit                                                                                        -         -         -
6.24.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.24.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.24.4 Data Bus
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.24.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.24.4.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.24.4.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.24.5 Operate
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.24.5.1 Portable Maintenance Aid (PMA) /              *                                                                            -         -         -
          Data Transfer and Diagnostic System
          (DTADS)
6.24.5.2 Com Nav Radio Panel                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.24.5.3 Com Nav Identification Management                                                                                          -         -         -

                                                                  92
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

          Unit (CNIMU)
6.25 STANDBY INSTRUMENTATION
6.25.1 Standby Compass
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.25.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.25.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
6.25.1.3 Perform Calibration                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.25.2 Standby ADI
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.25.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.25.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.25.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.25.3 Inclinometer
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.25.3.1 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                                 -         -         -
6.25.3.2 Remove / Install Inclinometer                                                                                              -         -         -
6.26 HEADS-UP DISPLAY (HUD) (C-27J)
      TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.26.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          -         -         -
6.26.2 Perform Operational Checks                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.26.3 Remove / Install
6.26.3.1 HUD Overhead Unit                                                                                                          -         -         -
6.26.3.2 HUD Combiner                                                                                                               -         -         -
6.26.3.3 Pitch Yaw Adjustment Module                                                                                                -         -         -
6.26.4 Perform Calibration / Adjustments                         *                                                                  -         -         -
6.26.5 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                            -         -         -
6.26.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                           *                                                                 -         -         -
6.27 ANGLE OF ATTACK (AOA) (C-27J)
      TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.27.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          -         -         -
6.27.2 Perform Operational Checks                      *                                                                            -         -         -
6.27.3 Remove / Install Angle of Attack                                                                                             -         -         -
        Transducer
6.27.4 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                            -         -         -
6.27.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                  -         -         -
6.28 AIR DATA SYSTEMS (C-27J)
6.28.1 Distributed Air Data System (DADS)
        (C-27J)
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.28.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.28.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.28.1.3 Remove / Install
6.28.1.3.1 Total Air Temp Probe                                                                                                     -         -         -
6.28.1.3.2 Central Air Data Computer                                                                                                -         -         -
6.28.1.3.3 Static Pressure Transducer Unit                                                                                          -         -         -
6.28.1.3.4 Pitot / Static Probe                                                                                                     -         -         -


                                                                  93
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.28.1.3.5 Airspeed Altimeter Indicator                                                                                             -         -         -
6.28.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.28.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
6.29 DATA RECORDERS (C-27J)
6.29.1 Flight Data Recorders / Digital (DFDR) /
        Solid State (SSFDR)
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.29.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.29.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.29.1.3 Remove / Install
6.29.1.3.1 Tri-axis Accelerometer                                                                                                   -         -         -
6.29.1.3.2 Position Transducers                                                                                                     -         -         -
6.29.1.4 Perform Transducer Adjustments                           *                                                                 -         -         -
6.29.1.5 Perform Download                              *                                                                            -         -         -
6.29.1.6 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.29.1.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                           -         -         -
6.30 WARNING SYSTEMS (C-27J)
6.30.1 Stall Warning / Prevention System
        (C-27J)
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.30.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.30.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.30.1.3 Remove / Install Stick Shaker                                                                                              -         -         -
6.30.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.30.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.30.2 Alert / Caution and Warning System
        (ACAWS) (C-27J)
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.30.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.30.2.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.30.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.30.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.30.3 Ground Collision Avoidance System
        (GCAS) / Terrain Awareness and
        Warning System (TAWS)
6.30.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.30.3.2 Perform Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -
6.30.3.3 Perform Database Loading Procedure                      *                                                                  -         -         -
6.30.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.30.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.31 LIQUID QUANTITY INDICATION
      (C-27J)
6.31.1 Fuel Management System (C-27J)
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.31.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.31.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.31.1.3 Perform Calibration                                     *                                                                  -         -         -

                                                                  94
                                     C-40, C-39, C-37, C-27 and C-21 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes
                                                     2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      A         B       C
                                                       A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                 Level     Level     Level
                                                                         Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

6.31.1.4 Remove / Install
6.31.1.4.1 Fuel Quantity Control Unit                                                                                               -         -         -
6.31.1.4.2 Externally Mounted Fuel Probe /                                                                                          -         -         -
           Compensator
6.31.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.31.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.31.2 Liquid Oxygen (LOX)
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.31.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.31.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.31.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.31.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
6.32 PRESSURE INDICATION
6.32.1 Hydraulic Pressure Indicating System
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.32.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.32.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.32.1.3 Remove / Install Pressure Transmitter                                                                                      -         -         -
6.32.1.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.32.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.32.2 Fuel Pressure Indicating System
        TR: Applicable C-27J Technical Orders
6.32.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
6.32.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
6.32.2.3 Remove / Install Pressure Transmitter                                                                                      -         -         -
6.32.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.32.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
6.33 REMOVE / INSTALL STANDARD
      MOUNT (C-27J)
      TR: Applicable C-27J TOs
6.33.1 Type 1                                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.33.2 Type 2                                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.33.3 Type 3                                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.33.4 Type 4                                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.33.5 Type 5                                          *                                                                            -         -         -
6.34 USE TEST EQUIPMENT (C-27J)
6.34.1 Fuel Quantity Adapter Breakout Box                                                                                           -         -         -
6.34.2 Pitch Yaw Adjustment Module Test Set                                                                                         -         -         -




                                                                  95
                                                  KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency Codes
                                                        2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          A         B       C
                                                           A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                     Level     Level     Level
                                                                             Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                         5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                              Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

Attachment 7 KC-10 Training Requirements
  NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A8X2X048A, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
          representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
          general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
          the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
          identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
  NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
  NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
  NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
  NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
          not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
          Attachment is waived.
  NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at
          DSN 736-7908
7.1 GENERAL ORGANIZATION
     MAINTENANCE (KC-10)
     TR: AFI 21-10/ AFOSH 91-2/ AFOSH
     91-100/ TO 1C-10(K)A-2-20/ TO 1C-
     10(K)A-2-1/ TO 1C-10(K)A-2-1FI-1/ TO
     1C-10(K)A-2-52/ TO 1C-10-(K)A-6WC-1/
     TO 35 C2-3-469-1
7.1.1 Team Communications Training                                                                                                      -         -         -
7.1.2 FOD / DOPP Prevention                                                                                                             -         -         -
7.1.3 Major Structural Areas / Environmental                                                                                            -         -         -
       Areas
7.1.4 Aircraft Egress Procedures                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.1.5 ATA Technical Order Familiarization                                                                                               -         -         -
7.1.6 Accomplish Requisitions (contractor                                                                                               -         -         -
       operated and maintained base supply)
7.1.7 Accomplish Item Failure Reports                                                                                                   -         -         -
       (COMBS)
7.1.8 Select / Use Safetying Devices                                                                                                    -         -         -
7.1.9 Welcome / Orientation                                                                                                             -         -         -
7.1.10 Flightline Safety / Precautions / Security                                                                                       -         -         -
7.1.11 Inspect / Operate Portable External                 *                                                                            -         -         -
        Electrical Power Unit
7.1.12 Inspect / Use Ground Maintenance Stands                                                                                          -         -         -
7.1.13 Perform A Check Inspection                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.1.14 Perform C Check Inspection                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.2 GENERAL MAINTENANCE TASKS
     (KC-10)
     TR: AFI 11-218/ TO 00-25-172/ TO 1C-
     10(K)A-2-7/ TO 1C-10(K)A-2-CL-1/ TO
     1C-10(K)A-2-9CL-1/ TO 1C-10(K)A-2-12
     Series/ TO 1C-10(K)A-2-20/ TO 1C-10(K)
     A-2-21/ TO 1C-10(K)A-2-23/ TO 1C-
     10(K)A-2-29/ TO 1C-10(K)A-2-49CL-1/
     TO 1C-10(K)A-2- 52/ TO 1C-10(K)A-2-71
     / TO 1C-10(K)A-2-7
7.2.1 Ensure Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                 *                                                                            -         -         -
7.2.2 Static Ground Aircraft                                                                                                            -         -         -

                                                                      96
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

7.2.3 Remove / Install Panels                                                                                                      -         -         -
7.2.4 Jack Team Member                                                                                                             -         -         -
7.2.5 Tow Aircraft
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-9
7.2.5.1 Tow Supervisor                                                                                                             -         -         -
7.2.5.2 Tow Vehicle Driver                                                                                                         -         -         -
7.2.5.3 Wing / Tail Walker                                                                                                         -         -         -
7.2.5.4 Brake Operator                                                                                                             -         -         -
7.2.6 Launch / Recover Aircraft                                                                                                    -         -         -
7.2.7 Marshall Aircraft                                                                                                            -         -         -
7.2.8 Perform Aircraft Deicing Procedures                                                                                          -         -         -
7.2.9 Operate UHF Radios                                                                                                           -         -         -
7.2.10 Operate Aircraft Interphone System                                                                                          -         -         -
7.2.11 Refuel / Defuel Team Member                                                                                                 -         -         -
7.2.12 Operate APU                                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.2.13 Apply External Power                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.2.14 Operate Air Conditioning Pack                  *                                                                            -         -         -
7.2.15 Pressurize / Depressurize Hydraulic            *                                                                            -         -         -
         Systems
7.2.16 Operate Cargo Door                                                                                                          -         -         -
7.2.17 Raise / Lower Air Refueling Boom                                                                                            -         -         -
7.2.18 Engine Access
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-71,
         1C- 10(K)A-2-71CL-1
7.2.18.1 Open / Close Core Cowling                                                                                                 -         -         -
7.2.18.2 Open / Close Fan Cowling                                                                                                  -         -         -
7.2.18.3 Open / Close Reverser Cowling                                                                                             -         -         -
7.2.18.4 Access #2 Engine                                                                                                          -         -         -
7.2.19 Tail Stand Safety / Operate Tail                                                                                            -         -         -
         Maintenance Stand
7.3 GENERAL FLIGHT CONTROLS (KC-10)
     TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-27/ TO 1C-10(K)A-2-
     27FI-1/ TO 1C-10(K)A-2-110-27
7.3.1 Flight Controls Indication Systems
7.3.1.1 Flap / Slat Position Indicating System
7.3.1.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -
7.3.1.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.1.1.3 Remove / Install / Adjust LRUs
7.3.1.1.3.1 Outboard Flap Transmitter                 *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.1.1.3.2 Inboard Flap Transmitter                  *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.1.1.3.3 Flap Handle Transmitter                                                                                                -         -         -
7.3.1.1.3.4 Slat Handle Limit Switches                                                                                             -         -         -
7.3.1.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                         *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.1.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                  -         -         -
7.3.1.2 Surface Position Indicating System
7.3.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                      -         -         -


                                                                 97
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

7.3.1.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                  *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.1.2.3 Remove / Install
7.3.1.2.3.1 Position LVDT                                                                                                          -         -         -
7.3.1.2.3.2 Spoiler Position Transmitter                                                                                           -         -         -
7.3.1.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                      -         -         -
7.3.1.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                         -         -         -
7.3.2 AutoPilot / Flight Director Systems
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-22, 1C-10(K)A- 2-22FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-22
7.3.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.3.2.2 Perform Operational Checks
7.3.2.2.1 A/P Engage/ Disengage/ Altitude Hold/       *                                                                            -         -         -
           Altitude Preselect/ Advisory
7.3.2.2.2 IAS/ Mach Hold/ Vertical Speed/                                                                                          -         -         -
           Turbulence
7.3.2.2.3 Auto Pitch Trim/ CWS/ Heading Hold/                                                                                      -         -         -
           Heading Select
7.3.2.2.4 VOR/ Speed Brake Roll Channel                                                                                            -         -         -
           Interlocks/ Take-Off/ Go-Around
7.3.2.2.5 Back Course / Localizer / ILS                                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.2.2.6 A / P / ILS Status Test                                                                                                  -         -         -
7.3.2.2.7 Flight Guidance BIT Tests                                                                                                -         -         -
7.3.2.3 Remove / Install
7.3.2.3.1 Elevator Averaging LVDT                                                                                                  -         -         -
7.3.2.3.2 Aileron Averaging LVDT                                                                                                   -         -         -
7.3.2.3.3 CWS Sensor                                            *                                                                  -         -         -
7.3.2.3.4 Flight Mode Annunciator                                                                                                  -         -         -
7.3.2.3.5 Horizontal Stabilizer in Motion Sensor      *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.2.3.6 Flight Guidance Control Panel Rack                                                                                       -         -         -
7.3.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.3.3 Yaw Damper
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-22, 1C-10(K)A- 2-22FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-22
7.3.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.3.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.3.3 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.3.4 Automatic Throttle Control System
       TR: 1C-10K(A)2-22, 1c-10(K)A- 2-22FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-22
7.3.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.3.4.2 Perform Operational Checks
7.3.4.2.1 Autothrottle Engage/ Disengage/                                                                                          -         -         -
           Autothrottle Elected Speed Test/ N-1
           Control Test
7.3.4.2.2 Autothrottle Overpower Test/ Retard                                                                                      -         -         -

                                                                 98
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

           Test/ Minimum Authority Test
7.3.4.2.3 Maximum Authority Test without                                                                                           -         -         -
           Engine Run
7.3.4.2.4 Maximum Authority Test with Engine                                                                                       -         -         -
           Run
7.3.4.2.5 Autoslat/ AT/ SC Sensor Test/               *                                                                            -         -         -
           Autothrottle Take-Off Functions Test
7.3.4.2.6 Slat Logic / Cross Tie Relay and Alpha      *                                                                            -         -         -
           Speed Test
7.3.4.3 Adjust Clutches                                                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.4.4 Remove / Install Duplex Throttle Servo                                                                                     -         -         -
7.3.4.5 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.4.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.3.5 Elevator Load and Feel/ Flap Limiting
       System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-27, 1C-10(K)A- 2-27FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-27
7.3.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.3.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.5.3 Remove / Install
7.3.5.3.1 ELF Duplex Actuator                                                                                                      -         -         -
7.3.5.3.2 ELF Transmitter                                                                                                          -         -         -
7.3.5.3.3 FL Duplex Actuator                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.3.5.3.4 Flap Interlock Go-Around Switch                                                                                          -         -         -
7.3.5.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.3.5.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.4 GENERAL COMPUTER COMPLEX
     (KC-10)
7.4.1 Flight Management Systems / GPS
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.4.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.4.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.4.1.3 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.4.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.5 GENERAL NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
     (KC-10)
7.5.1 Attitude System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.5.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.5.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.5.1.3 Remove / Install
7.5.1.3.1 Standby Attitude Director Indicator         *                                                                            -         -         -
7.5.1.3.2 Standby Static Inverter                     *                                                                            -         -         -
7.5.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.5.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -

                                                                 99
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

7.5.2 Primary Compass System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.5.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.5.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.5.2.3 Remove / Install Flux Valve                                                                                                -         -         -
7.5.2.4 Perform Degaussing Procedures                                                                                              -         -         -
7.5.2.5 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.5.2.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.5.3 Standby Magnetic Compass
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.5.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.5.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.5.3.3 Remove / Install Standby Compass                                                                                           -         -         -
7.5.3.4 Perform Standby Compass Calibration                                                                                        -         -         -
7.5.3.5 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.5.3.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.5.4 Inertial Navigation System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-110-34
7.5.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.5.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.5.4.3 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.5.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.6 FLIGHT INSTRUMENTS (KC-10)
7.6.1 Pitot / Static Systems
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.6.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.6.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.1.3 Perform Pitot / Static Leak Test                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.6.1.4 Remove / Install
7.6.1.4.1 Pitot Tube                                  *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.1.4.2 Static Port                                                                                                              -         -         -
7.6.1.4.3 Static Selector Valve Switch                                                                                             -         -         -
7.6.1.4.4 Port / Plate Heaters                                                                                                     -         -         -
7.6.1.4.5 Hoses / Lines / Fittings                                                                                                 -         -         -
7.6.1.5 Perform Pitot / Static Purge                                                                                               -         -         -
7.6.1.6 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.1.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.6.2 Standby Altitude Indicating System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.6.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.6.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.2.3 Remove / Install Standby Altimeter                                                                                         -         -         -

                                                                100
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

7.6.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.6.3 Vertical Velocity Indicating System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.6.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.6.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.3.3 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.6.4 Mach / AirSpeed and OverSpeed
       Indicating System
       TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-34 TO 1C-10(K)A-
       2-34FI-1 TO 1C-10(K)A-2-34110-34
7.6.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.6.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.4.3 Remove / Install Standby Airspeed                                                                                          -         -         -
         Indicator
7.6.4.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.4.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.6.5 True AirSpeed and Static Air Temperature
       Indicating System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.6.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.6.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.5.3 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.6.6 Total Air Temperature and Thrust Rating
       Indicating System
       TR: 1C-10- (K)A-2-31, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
       31FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-34
7.6.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.6.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.6.3 Remove / Install TAT Probe                                                                                                 -         -         -
7.6.6.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.6.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.6.7 Clocks and Time Standards
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-31, 1C-10(K)A- 2-31FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-31
7.6.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.6.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.7.3 Remove and Install
7.6.7.3.1 Time Standard                                                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.7.3.2 Clocks                                                                                                                   -         -         -
7.6.7.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.6.7.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.7 AIR DATA SYSTEMS (KC-10)


                                                                101
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

7.7.1 Central Air Data Computing System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.7.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.7.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.7.1.3 Remove / Install Central Air Data             *                                                                            -         -         -
         Computer
7.7.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.7.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.8 DATA RECORDING SYSTEMS (KC-10)
7.8.1 Digital Flight Data Recording System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-31, 1C-10(K)A- 2-31FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.8.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.8.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.8.1.3 Remove / Install
7.8.1.3.1 Digital Flight Recorder                                                                                                  -         -         -
7.8.1.3.2 Underwater Locator Beacon                                                                                                -         -         -
7.8.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.8.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.9 WARNING SYSTEMS (KC-10)
7.9.1 Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning
       System / Ground Proximity Warning
       System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.9.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.9.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.9.1.3 Remove / Install Speaker                                                                                                   -         -         -
7.9.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.9.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.9.2 Angle Of Attack / Stall Warning System
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-34, 1C-10(K)A- 2-34FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-34
7.9.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.9.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.9.2.3 Remove / Install
7.9.2.3.1 AOA Vane                                                                                                                 -         -         -
7.9.2.3.2 Stick Shaker Motor                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.9.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.9.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                  -         -         -
7.9.3 Central Aural Warning Systems
       TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-31, 1C-10(K)A- 2-31FI-
       1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-31
7.9.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.9.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.9.3.3 Remove / Install Speaker                                                                                                   -         -         -

                                                                102
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

7.9.3.4 Isolate Malfunction                           *                                                                            -         -         -
7.9.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                 -         -         -
7.10 ENGINE INSTRUMENTATION (KC-10)
7.10.1 Exhaust Gas Temperature Indicating
        System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-77, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        77FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-77
7.10.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.10.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.1.3 Remove / Install
7.10.1.3.1 EGT Quadrant                               *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.1.3.2 Forward / Aft Lead                         *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
7.10.2 Engine Tachometer Indicating Systems
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-1-73, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        73FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-77
7.10.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.10.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.2.3 Remove / Install
7.10.2.3.1 N-1 Transmitter                                                                                                         -         -         -
7.10.2.3.2 N-2 Transmitter                                                                                                         -         -         -
7.10.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
7.10.3 Fuel Pressure Indicating System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-73, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        73FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-73
7.10.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.10.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.3.3 Remove / Install Fuel Pressure                                                                                            -         -         -
          Transmitter
7.10.3.4 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
7.10.4 Oil Pressure Indicating System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-79, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        79FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-79
7.10.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.10.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.4.3 Remove / Install Oil Pressure                                                                                             -         -         -
          Transmitter
7.10.4.4 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.4.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
7.10.5 Oil Temperature Indicating System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-79, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        79FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-79
7.10.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.10.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -

                                                                103
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

7.10.5.3 Remove / Install Oil Temperature                                                                                          -         -         -
          Sensor
7.10.5.4 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.5.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
7.10.6 Fuel Flow / Fuel Used Indicating System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-73, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        73FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-73
7.10.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.10.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.6.3 Remove / Install Fuel Flow Transmitter                                                                                    -         -         -
7.10.6.4 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.6.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
7.10.7 Fuel Temperature Indicating System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-73, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        73FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-73
7.10.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.10.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.7.3 Remove / Install Fuel Temperature                                                                                         -         -         -
          Sensor
7.10.7.4 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.10.7.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
7.11 AUXILIARY POWER UNIT
      INDICATING SYSTEM (KC-10)
7.11.1 APU Exhaust Gas Temperature Indicating
        System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-49, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        49FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-49
7.11.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.11.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.11.2 APU Tachometer Indicating System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-49, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        49FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-49
7.11.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.11.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.11.2.3 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.11.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
7.12 LIQUID QUANTITY INDICATING
      SYSTEMS (KC-10)
7.12.1 Fuel Quantity Indicating Systems
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-28, 1C-10(K)A-2-
        28FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-28
7.12.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.12.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.12.1.3 Remove / Install
7.12.1.3.1 Fuel Quantity Indicators                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.12.1.3.2 Power Distribution Unit                                                                                                 -         -         -
7.12.1.3.3 Fault Isolation Probe                                                                                                   -         -         -


                                                                104
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

7.12.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.12.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
7.12.2 Engine Oil Quantity Indicating System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-79, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        79FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-79
7.12.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.12.2.2 Perform Operational Check                    *                                                                            -         -         -
7.12.2.3 Remove / Install Oil Quantity                                                                                             -         -         -
          Transmitter
7.12.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.12.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
7.12.3 APU Oil Quantity Indicating System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-49, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        49FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-49
7.12.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.12.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.12.3.3 Remove / Install Oil Level Sensor                                                                                         -         -         -
7.12.3.4 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.12.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                  -         -         -
7.12.4 Hydraulic Quantity Indicating System
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-29, 1C- 10(K)A-2-
        29FI-1, 1C-10(K)A-2- 110-29
7.12.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                       -         -         -
7.12.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                   *                                                                            -         -         -
7.12.4.3 Remove / Install Hydraulic Quantity                                                                                       -         -         -
          Transmitter Quantity Transmitter
7.12.4.4 Adjust Hydraulic Quantity Transmitter                                                                                     -         -         -
7.12.4.5 Isolate Malfunction                          *                                                                            -         -         -
7.12.4.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                 -         -         -
7.13 MISCELLANEOUS SYSTEMS (KC-10)
7.13.1 Hydraulic Indicating Systems
        TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-29, 1C-10(K)- 2-29FI-
        1, 1C-10(K)A-2-110-29
7.13.1.1 Hydraulic Temperature Indicating
          System
7.13.1.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
7.13.1.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -         -         -
7.13.1.1.3 Remove / Install Hydraulic                                                                                              -         -         -
            Temperature Sensor
7.13.1.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -         -         -
7.13.1.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -         -         -
7.13.1.2 Hydraulic Pressure Indicating System
7.13.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -
7.13.1.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -         -         -
7.13.1.2.3 Remove / Install Hydraulic Pressure                                                                                     -         -         -
            Transmitter
7.13.1.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -         -         -

                                                                105
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                   2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

7.13.1.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                  -         -         -
7.13.1.3 Brake Indicating Systems
          TR: 1C-10(K)A-2-32, 1Cc- 10(K)A-2-
          32FI-1, 1C-10(K)A- 2-110-32
7.13.1.3.1 Brake Temperature Indicating System
7.13.1.3.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -         -         -
7.13.1.3.1.2 Perform Operational Checks               *                                                                            -         -         -
7.13.1.3.1.3 Remove / Install System                                                                                               -         -         -
             Components
7.13.1.3.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                      *                                                                            -         -         -
7.13.1.3.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -         -         -
7.13.1.3.2 Brake Pressure Indicating System
7.13.1.3.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -         -         -
7.13.1.3.2.2 Perform Operational Checks               *                                                                            -         -         -
7.13.1.3.2.3 Isolate Malfunction                      *                                                                            -         -         -
7.13.1.3.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                   *                                                                  -         -         -
7.14 USE TEST EQUIPMENT (KC-10)
7.14.1 CADC Remote Test Set                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.14.2 AT / SC Breakout Box                                                                                                        -         -         -
7.14.3 LVDT Breakout Box                                                                                                           -         -         -
7.14.4 Autopilot Failure Decoder                                                                                                   -         -         -
7.14.5 N-1 RPM Simulator                                                                                                           -         -         -
7.14.6 N-2 RPM Simulator                                                                                                           -         -         -
7.14.7 TTU-405 Pressure Test Set                      *                                                                            -         -         -
7.14.8 EGT Test Set                                                                                                                -         -         -




                                                                106
                                                 KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                      4. Proficiency Codes
                                                        2. Core Tasks                   3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                          A         B       C
                                                            A        B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                     Level     Level     Level
                                                                             Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                         5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                              Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

Attachment 8 KC-135 Training Requirements
  NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A8X2X048X, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
          representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
          general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
          the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
          identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
  NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
  NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
  NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
  NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
          not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
          Attachment is waived.
  NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at
          DSN 736-7908
8.1 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
     MAINTENANCE (KC-135)
     TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs
8.1.1 Technical Order Familiarization                                                                                                -           -          -
8.1.2 Aircraft Familiarization / Egress                                                                                              -           -          -
8.1.3 Flightline Safety/ Precautions/ Security                                                                                       -           -          -
8.1.4 Dropped Object Prevention Program                                                                                              -           -          -
       (DOPP)
8.2 GENERAL MAINTENANCE TASKS
     (KC-135)
     TR: Applicable KC-135 TOs
8.2.1 Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                     *                                                                            -           -          -
8.2.2 Operate Hydraulics                                                                                                             -           -          -
8.2.3 Open / Close Engine Cowling                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.2.4 Open / Close Engine Fan Ducts                                                                                                  -           -          -
8.2.5 Operate Cargo Doors                                                                                                            -           -          -
8.2.6 Remove / Install
8.2.6.1 Main Battery                                                                                                                 -           -          -
8.2.6.2 APU Battery                                                                                                                  -           -          -
8.2.6.3 Maintenance Panels                                                                                                           -           -          -
8.2.7 Tow Aircraft
8.2.7.1 Wing / Tail Walking                                                                                                          -           -          -
8.2.7.2 Brake Operator                                                                                                               -           -          -
8.2.7.3 Team Communications                                                                                                          -           -          -
8.2.8 Refuel / Defuel Aircraft
8.2.8.1 Fireguard                                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.2.8.2 Refuel Panel Operator                                                                                                        -           -          -
8.2.8.3 Defuel Panel Operator                                                                                                        -           -          -
8.2.9 Jack Team Member                                                                                                               -           -          -
8.2.10 Perform Aircraft Phase/ Periodic/ ISO                                                                                         -           -          -
8.2.11 Team Communications                                                                                                           -           -          -
8.2.12 Apply Power
8.2.12.1 APU                                                                                                                         -           -          -
8.2.12.2 Ground Power Unit                              *                                                                            -           -          -
8.2.13 Launch / Recover Aircraft

                                                                     107
                                               KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                       A          B       A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

8.2.13.1 Use Aircraft Inter-Phone                                                                                               -           -          -
8.2.13.2 Marshall                                                                                                               -           -          -
8.2.14 Remove / Install
8.2.14.1 Pins                                                                                                                   -           -          -
8.2.14.2 Locks                                                                                                                  -           -          -
8.2.14.3 Chocks                                                                                                                 -           -          -
8.2.15 Attach / Detach Ground Cable                                                                                             -           -          -
8.3 GENERAL FLIGHT CONTROLS
     (KC-135)
8.3.1 Flap Position Indicating System
       TR: 1C-135-2-8GS-1/-2-8JG-1
       Technical Orders
8.3.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.3.1.2 Perform Operational Check                  *                                                                            -           -          -
8.3.1.3 Remove / Install
8.3.1.3.1 Flap Position Transmitter                                                                                             -           -          -
8.3.1.4 Adjust Flap Position Transmitter                                                                                        -           -          -
8.3.1.5 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.3.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -
8.3.2 Automatic Flight Control Systems
8.3.2.1 Flight Control Set
         TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
         Orders
8.3.2.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -           -          -
8.3.2.1.2 Perform Operational Check                *                                                                            -           -          -
8.3.2.1.3 Horizontal Position Sensor Slack                                                                                      -           -          -
           Test
8.3.2.1.4 Adjust Auto-Pilot Flight Control                                                                                      -           -          -
           Cables
8.3.2.1.5 Remove / Install
8.3.2.1.5.1 Drum and Bracket Assembly                                                                                           -           -          -
8.3.2.1.5.2 Auto-Pilot Servos                                                                                                   -           -          -
8.3.2.1.5.3 Horizontal Position Sensor (HPS)                                                                                    -           -          -
8.3.2.1.6 Isolate Malfunction                      *                                                                            -           -          -
8.3.2.1.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -           -          -
8.3.3 Auto-Throttle System
       TR: 1C-135-2-11-6
8.3.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.3.3.2 System Tie-In / Integration                                                                                             -           -          -
8.3.3.3 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -           -          -
8.3.3.4 Perform Operation Check                                                                                                 -           -          -
8.3.3.5 Remove / Install Components                                                                                             -           -          -
8.3.3.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -           -          -
8.3.4 Stabilization Augmentation
8.3.4.1 Flight Control Augmentation / Engine
         Fail Assist
         TR: Applicable -11 series Technical

                                                                  108
                                               KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                       A          B       A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

         Orders
8.3.4.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -           -          -
8.3.4.1.2 Perform Operational Check                *                                                                            -           -          -
8.3.4.1.3 Perform Operational Check using                                                                                       -           -          -
           FCAS Breakout Box
8.3.4.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                      *                                                                            -           -          -
8.3.4.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                    *                                                                 -           -          -
8.4 GENERAL COMPUTER COMPLEX
     (KC-135)
8.4.1 Information Management System /
       Flight Management System (IMS /
       FMS)
       TR: 1C-135-2-11-40-6
8.4.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.4.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -           -          -
8.4.1.3 Load Software and Navigation               *                                                                            -           -          -
         Database
8.4.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.4.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -
8.4.2 Flight Management System
       TR: 1C-135-2-11-30-6
8.4.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.4.2.2 System Tie-In / Integration                                                                                             -           -          -
8.4.2.3 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -           -          -
8.4.2.4 Perform Operational Check                  *                                                                            -           -          -
8.4.2.5 Perform Software Loading                                                                                                -           -          -
8.4.2.6 Remove / Install Components                *                                                                            -           -          -
8.4.2.7 Troubleshoot                                          *                                                                 -           -          -
8.4.3 Flight Display System (FDS-255)
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.4.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.4.3.3 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.4.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting           *                                                                            -           -          -
8.5 GENERAL NAVIGATIONS SYSTEMS
     (KC-135)
8.5.1 FD-109 Flight Director / Rotation Go
       Around
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.5.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.5.1.2 Perform Complete Operational Check                    *                                                                 -           -          -
8.5.1.3 Perform Fast Operational Check             *                                                                            -           -          -
8.5.1.4 Calibrate AOA Transmitter                                                                                               -           -          -
8.5.1.5 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.5.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -
8.5.2 Standby Compass System

                                                                  109
                                               KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                       A          B       A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.5.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.5.2.2 Perform Compass Swing                                                                                                   -           -          -
8.5.2.3 Degauss Skull Plate                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.5.2.4 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.5.3 Carousel IV Inertial Navigation System
       TR: 1C-135-2-11-30-5
8.5.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.5.3.2 System Tie-In / Integration                                                                                             -           -          -
8.5.3.3 Perform Inspection                                                                                                      -           -          -
8.5.3.4 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -           -          -
8.5.3.5 Program INU                                                                                                             -           -          -
8.5.3.6 Remove / Install Components                                                                                             -           -          -
8.5.3.7 Troubleshoot                                          *                                                                 -           -          -
8.5.4 Embedded GPS / INS (EGI)
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.5.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.5.4.3 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.5.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -
8.5.5 Periscopic Sextant System
       TR: 1C-135-2-9GS/2-9JG Technical
       Orders
8.5.5.1 Perform Sextant Mount inspection                                                                                        -           -          -
8.5.5.2 Remove / Install Sexton Mount                                                                                           -           -          -
8.5.6 N-1 Compass System (EC / RC-135)
       TR: 1C-135-2-11-1GS/2-11JG
8.5.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6 FLIGHT INSTRUMENTS (KC-135)
8.6.1 Pitot / Static System
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.6.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.1.2 Perform Leak Check                         *                                                                            -           -          -
8.6.1.3 Purge System                                                                                                            -           -          -
8.6.1.4 Manufacture Rubber Hose                                                                                                 -           -          -
        Assemblies
8.6.1.5 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.6.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -
8.6.2 Digital Altimeter
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.6.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.2.2 Perform Operational Check                  *                                                                            -           -          -
8.6.2.3 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.6.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -

                                                                  110
                                               KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                       A          B       A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

8.6.3 Altimeter (AAU-19 / A)
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.6.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -           -          -
8.6.3.3 Adjust Altimeter                                                                                                        -           -          -
8.6.3.4 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                        -           -          -
8.6.4 Vertical Speed Indicator
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.6.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -           -          -
8.6.4.3 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.6.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -
8.6.5 Digital Air-Speed Indicator
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.6.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -           -          -
8.6.5.3 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.6.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -
8.6.6 True Air-Speed Indicator
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.6.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.6.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                               -           -          -
8.6.6.3 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.6.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                        -           -          -
8.6.7 Free Air Temperature Indicating
       System
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.6.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.7.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                               -           -          -
8.6.7.3 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.8 Cabin Temperature Indicating System
8.6.8.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.8.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                               -           -          -
8.6.8.3 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.9 Aircraft Clock (Digital)
8.6.9.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.9.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                               -           -          -
8.6.9.3 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.6.10 Standby Attitude Director Indicator
        TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
        Orders

                                                                  111
                                               KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                       A          B       A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

8.6.10.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.6.10.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -           -          -
8.6.10.3 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.7 AIR DATA SYSTEM (KC-135)
8.7.1 Digital Air Data Computer System
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.7.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.7.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -           -          -
8.7.1.3 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.7.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -
8.8 DATA RECORDER (KC-135)
8.8.1 Flight Data Recorder / Cockpit Voice
       Recorder
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.8.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.8.1.2 Perform FDR / CVR Checkout                 *                                                                            -           -          -
8.8.1.3 Perform FDR / CVR Quick Checkout           *                                                                            -           -          -
8.8.1.4 Perform System Tie-In Checkouts                                                                                         -           -          -
8.8.1.5 Perform Data Download                                                                                                   -           -          -
8.8.1.6 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.8.1.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -
8.9 WARNING SYSTEMS (KC-135)
8.9.1 Ground Proximity Warning System
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.9.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.9.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                 *                                                                            -           -          -
8.9.1.3 Perform Software Load                                                                                                   -           -          -
8.9.1.4 Isolate Malfunction                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.9.1.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                 -           -          -
8.9.2 Altitude Alerter
       TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
       Orders
8.9.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.9.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                              -           -          -
8.9.2.3 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.1 ENGINE INDICATING SYSTEMS
     (KC-135)
8.10.1 Exhaust Gas Temperature System
        TR: 1C-135-2-4GS-1/2-4JG-1
        Technical Orders
8.10.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.10.1.2 Perform Operation Check                   *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.1.3 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -           -          -

                                                                  112
                                               KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                       A          B       A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

8.10.2 Engine Oil Temperature Indicating
        System
        TR: 1C-135-2-4GS-1/2-4JG-1
        Technical Orders
8.10.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.10.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.2.3 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -           -          -
8.10.3 Engine RPM Indicating Systems
        TR: 1C-135-2-4GS-1/2-4JG-1
        Technical Orders
8.10.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.10.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.3.3 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -           -          -
8.10.4 Engine Oil Pressure Indicating System
        TR: 1C-135-2-4GS-1/2-4JG-1
        Technical Orders
8.10.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.10.4.2 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.4.3 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -           -          -
8.10.5 Engine Pressure Ratio (EPR)
        TR: 1C-135-2-4GS-1/2-4JG-1
        Technical Orders
8.10.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.10.5.2 System Tie-In / Integration                                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.5.3 Perform Inspections                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.10.5.4 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.5.5 Remove / Install Components                                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.5.6 Troubleshoot                                         *                                                                 -           -          -
8.10.6 Fuel Flow Indicating System
        TR: 1C-135-2-4GS-1/2-4JG-1
        Technical Orders
8.10.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.10.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.6.3 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.6.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -           -          -
8.10.7 Fuel Savings Advisory System
        TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
        Orders
8.10.7.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.10.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.7.3 Load FMAC Software                        *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.7.4 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                            -           -          -
8.10.7.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -           -          -
8.11 LIQUID QUANTITY INDICATING

                                                                  113
                                               KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                       A          B       A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

      SYSTEM (KC-135)
8.11.1 Fuel Quantity Indicating System
        TR: Applicable -11 series Technical
        Orders
8.11.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.11.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                                            -           -          -
8.11.1.3 Remove / Install Components               *                                                                            -           -          -
          Integrated Fuel Management Panel
8.11.1.4 Calibrate Tank Interface Unit             *                                                                            -           -          -
8.11.1.5 Isolate Malfunction                       *                                                                            -           -          -
8.11.1.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                     *                                                                 -           -          -
8.11.2 Fuel Quantity Indicating System
        (Simmons)
        TR: 1C-135-2-11-30-6
8.11.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.11.2.2 System Tie-In / Integration                                                                                            -           -          -
8.11.2.3 Perform Inspections                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.11.2.4 Perform Operational Checks                *                                                                            -           -          -
8.11.2.5 Perform System Capacitance /              *                                                                            -           -          -
          Resistive Checks
8.11.2.6 Perform Tank Simulator Check              *                                                                            -           -          -
8.11.2.7 Load FMAC Software                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.11.2.8 Remove / Install Components                                                                                            -           -          -
8.11.2.9 Calibrate Tank Interface Unit             *                                                                            -           -          -
8.11.2.10 Troubleshoot                                        *                                                                 -           -          -
8.11.3 Fuel Temperature Indicating System
        TR: 1C-135-2-5GS-1/2-5JG-1
8.11.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.11.3.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                              -           -          -
8.11.3.3 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.11.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                       -           -          -
8.12 HYDRAULIC INDICATING
      SYSTEMS (KC-135)
8.12.1 Rudder Hydraulic Pressure Indicating
        System
        TR: 1C-135-2-13GA/2-13JG
        Technical Orders
8.12.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.12.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -           -          -
8.12.1.3 Isolate Malfunction                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.12.1.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                       -           -          -
8.13 MISCELLANEOUS SYSTEMS
      (KC-135)
8.13.1 Wind-Shear / Speed Command Of
        Attitude and Thrust
        TR: ETM-RC-135(S), ETM-TC-
        135(S)


                                                                  114
                                               KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                    2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification for OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     A         B       C
                                                      A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                                        Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials

8.13.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                    -           -          -
8.13.1.2 System Tie-In / Integration                                                                                            -           -          -
8.13.1.3 Perform Inspection                                                                                                     -           -          -
8.13.1.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                              -           -          -
8.13.1.5 Remove / Install Components                                                                                            -           -          -
8.13.1.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                           -           -          -
8.14 USE TEST EQUIPMENT (KC-135)
8.14.1 FCAS Breakout Box                                                                                                        -           -          -
8.14.2 AOA In-Flight Calibration Test Set                                                                                       -           -          -
8.14.3 Pitot / Static Manifold Breakout Box                                                                                     -           -          -
8.14.4 Rudder PCU Tester                                                                                                        -           -          -




                                                                115
                                          AVIONICS FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                                    Codes Indicate
                                                  2. Core
                                                                                     3. Certification for OJT                         Training /
                                                   Tasks
                                                                                                                                     Information
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                           Provided
                                                                                                                                    A      B     C
                                                 A       B          A            B              C               D         E        3 Skill   5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level Level
                                                                 Training     Training        Trainee       Trainer    Certifier
                                               5 Level 7 Level                                                                     Course    CDC      CDC
                                                                  Start       Complete        Initials      Initials    Initials

    Attachment 9 – AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
       NOTE 1: This attachment identifies the STS elements taught in the standardized Avionics Fundamentals course.
       NOTE 2: Only proficiency level coded items in Column 4A are trained in the pre-requisite Avionics Fundamentals course.
       NOTE 3: Users may annotate unique AFSC-specific devices or circuits not identified by this attachment IAW AFI 31-2221.
       NOTE 4: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
9.1 AVIONICS SUPPORT SUBJECTS
9.1.1 Safety                                                                                                        B    -    -
9.1.2 First Aid                                                                                                     A    -    -
9.1.3 Electrostatic Discharge (ESD) Control                                                                         B    -    -
9.1.4 Electromagnetic Effects (EMP/EMI)                                                                             B    -    -
9.1.5 Metric Notation
9.1.5.1 Powers of Ten                                                                                               B    -    -
9.1.5.2 Electrical Prefixes                                                                                         B    -    -
9.1.6 Digital Numbering systems                                                                                     A    -    -
9.1.7 Common Tools                                                                                                  A    -    -
9.1.8 Technical Publications                                                                                        A    -    -
9.1.9 Documentation                                                                                                 A    -    -
9.2 TEST EQUIPMENT
9.2.1 Use Digital Multimeter                                                                                        2b   -    -
9.2.2 Use Oscilloscope                                                                                              2b   -    -
9.2.3 Wave Generators                                                                                               A    -    -
9.3 BASIC ELECTRICITY
9.3.1 Direct Current (DC)                                                                                           B    -    -
9.3.2 Alternating Current (AC)                                                                                       B   -    -
9.3.3 Resistance Theory                                                                                              B   -    -
9.3.3.1 Measure Resistance                                                                                           2b -     -
9.3.4 Capacitance Theory                                                                                             B   -    -
9.3.5 Inductance Theory                                                                                              B   -    -
9.4 Electromagnetic Devices
9.4.1 Transformers                                                                                                   B   -    -
9.4.2 Relays and Solenoids
9.4.2.1 Theory                                                                                                       B   -    -
9.4.2.2 Troubleshoot Relay                                                                                           2b -     -
9.4.3 Motor Theory
9.4.3.1 DC                                                                                                           A -      -
9.4.3.2 AC                                                                                                           A -      -
9.4.4 Generator Theory
9.4.4.1 DC                                                                                                           A -      -
9.4.4.2 AC                                                                                                           A -      -
9.4.5 Synchro/Servo                                                                                                  B   -    -
9.4.6 Transducer                                                                                                     B   -    -
9.5 Solid State Devices
9.5.1 Theory                                                                                                         A -      -
9.5.2 Diodes (LED, Zener, etc)                                                                                       A -      -
9.5.3 Integrated Circuits                                                                                            A -      -
9.5.4 Operational Amplifiers                                                                                         A -      -
9.6 Power Supply Circuits
9.6.1 Theory                                                                                                         B   -    -

                                                                        116
                                          AVIONICS FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                                    Codes Indicate
                                                  2. Core
                                                                                     3. Certification for OJT                         Training /
                                                   Tasks
                                                                                                                                     Information
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                           Provided
                                                                                                                                    A      B     C
                                                 A       B          A            B              C               D         E        3 Skill   5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level Level
                                                                 Training     Training        Trainee       Trainer    Certifier
                                               5 Level 7 Level                                                                     Course    CDC      CDC
                                                                  Start       Complete        Initials      Initials    Initials

9.7 Wave Generating Circuits
9.7.1 Theory                                                                                                                          A        -        -
9.8 Digital Logic Circuits
9.8.1 Theory                                                                                                                          A        -        -
9.8.2 Gates                                                                                                                           A        -        -
9.8.3 Flip Flops                                                                                                                      A        -        -
9.8.4 Digital to Analog and Analog to                                                                                                 A        -        -
       Digital Converters
9.9 Basic Computer & Network
     Fundamentals
9.9.1 Theory                                                                                                                          A        -        -
9.9.2 Network Components                                                                                                              A        -        -
9.9.3 Protocols                                                                                                                       A        -        -
9.9.4 Topologies (Architecture)                                                                                                       A        -        -
9.10 Basic Communications
9.10.1 Radio Frequency Theory                                                                                                         A        -        -
9.10.2 Frequency Spectrum                                                                                                             A        -        -
9.10.3 Modulation (AM/FM)                                                                                                             A        -        -
9.10.4 Demodulation (AM/FM)                                                                                                           A        -        -
9.10.5 Receivers/Transmitters                                                                                                         A        -        -
9.10.6 Transmission Mediums Theory                                                                                                    A        -        -
9.10.7 Waveguides                                                                                                                     A        -        -
9.10.8 Data Buses                                                                                                                     A        -        -
9.10.9 Fiber Optics                                                                                                                   A        -        -
9.10.10 Coaxial Cables                                                                                                                A        -        -
9.10.11 Antennas                                                                                                                      A        -        -
9.11 Assemble Solder Type Connections
9.11.1 Terminal Connection                                                                                                           1b        -        -
9.11.2 Multipin Connector                                                                                                            1b        -        -
9.11.3 Coaxial Connector                                                                                                             1b        -        -
9.11.4 Desolder Procedures                                                                                                           1b        -        -
9.12 Assemble Solderless Type Connections
9.12.1 Coaxial Connector                                                                                                             1b        -        -
9.12.2 Multipin Connector                                                                                                            1b        -        -
9.12.3 Twin-axial Connector (Data Bus)                                                                                               1b        -        -
9.12.4 Crimped Connection
9.12.4.1 Terminal Lugs                                                                                                               1b        -        -
9.12.4.2 Wire Splice                                                                                                                 1b        -        -
9.12.5 Shield Termination                                                                                                            1b        -        -
9.13 General Maintenance Practices
9.13.1 Assemble Multipin Connector                                                                                                   1b        -        -
        Harness
9.13.2 Secure Cable Harness                                                                                                          1b        -        -
9.13.3 Use Safety Wire                                                                                                               1b        -        -
9.13.4 Troubleshooting Procedures
9.13.4.1 Isolate Wire Open                                                                                                           1b        -        -
9.13.4.2 Isolate Wire Short                                                                                                          1b        -        -



                                                                        117
                                          AVIONICS FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency
                                                                                                                                    Codes Indicate
                                                  2. Core
                                                                                     3. Certification for OJT                         Training /
                                                   Tasks
                                                                                                                                     Information
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                           Provided
                                                                                                                                    A      B     C
                                                 A       B          A            B              C               D         E        3 Skill   5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level Level
                                                                 Training     Training        Trainee       Trainer    Certifier
                                               5 Level 7 Level                                                                     Course    CDC      CDC
                                                                  Start       Complete        Initials      Initials    Initials

9.13.4.3 Isolate Voltage Fault on Multipin                                                                                           1b        -        -
         Connector Harness
9.13.4.4 Isolate Crossed Connection on                                                                                               1b        -        -
         Multipin Connector Harness




                                                                        118
                                                STS 2AX7X
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                             Provided
                                                                                                A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                  3-Skill
                                                                                                       5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                             Level

                                                                                             Course       CDC          Course      CDC

Attachment 11 – AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require
        no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman
        CDCs.
11.1.     MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
11.1.1.   Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.1.2.   Maintenance Concept
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
                                                                                                                                    A
11.1.3.   Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54
                                                                                                                                    A
11.1.4.   Operating Instructions (OI)
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
                                                                                                                                    A
11.1.5.   Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
          TR: AFCSM 21-556 Volume 2, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, and TO 00-20-2
                                                                                                                                    B
11.1.6.   Maintenance Metrics
          TR: AFI 21-103 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                                    A
11.1.7.   Maintenance Repair Priorities
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.1.8.   Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
          TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
                                                                                                                                    A

11.2.     MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
11.2.1.  Wing Commander (WG/CC)
         TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.2.2. Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
         TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.2.3. Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
         TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.2.4. Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.2.5. MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.2.6. Squadron Commander (SQ/CC)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.2.7. Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO)/Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.2.8. Flight Commander/Flight Chief
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.2.9. AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.2.10. Section NCOIC/Chief
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    B
11.2.11. Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
11.3.     FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
11.3.1.   Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A

                                                         119
                                                     STS 2AX7X
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                        Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                        Provided
                                                                                           A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                             3-Skill
                                                                                                  5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                        Level

                                                                                        Course       CDC          Course      CDC

11.3.2.   Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                                               A
11.3.3.   Programs and Resources Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.4.     FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
          (AMXS/HMXS)
11.4.1.   Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.4.2.   Flightline Expediter
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.4.3.   Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.4.4.   Aircraft Section
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.4.5.   Specialist Section
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.4.6.   Weapons Section
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.4.7.   Support Section
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.5.     FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
11.5.1.   Accessories Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.5.2.   Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.5.3.   Armament Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.5.4.   Avionics Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.5.5.   Fabrication Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.5.6.   Maintenance Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.5.7.   Munitions Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.5.8.   Propulsion Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.5.9.   Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.6.     MAINTENANCE TRAINING
11.6.1    Types of Training
          TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
                                                                                                                               A
11.6.2.   Training Documentation
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                                               A
11.6.3.   Training Business Area (TBA)
          TR: https://www.my.af.mil/imdsltpa/IMDSTWeb/ActionServlet
                                                                                                                               B
11.6.4.   Special Certification Rosters
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
11.6.5.   Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFPD 10-9
                                                                                                                               A
11.6.6.   Training Management
          TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AETCI 36-2601
11.6.6.1. Training Forecast                                                                                                    A

                                                               120
                                                     STS 2AX7X
                                       AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                      Provided
                                                                                                         A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                           3-Skill
                                                                                                                5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                                      Level

                                                                                                      Course       CDC          Course      CDC


11.6.6.2. Training Request                                                                                                                   A
11.6.6.3. Master Training Plan                                                                                                               A
11.7.      PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
11.7.1.    Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 36-2110, AFI 38-201 and AFTTP 3-3
11.7.2.    Personnel Utilization
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101
11.8.      MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
11.8.1.    Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 (Vol. 1) and AFTTP 3-3
11.8.2.    Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFTTP 3-3
11.8.3.    Consumables Management
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFTTP 3-3
11.8.4.    Equipment Items
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFMAN 23-220
11.8.5.    Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight Programming
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and TO 00-20-3
11.8.6.    Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
11.8.7.    Supply Points
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
11.8.8.    Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101
11.8.9.    Repair Cycle Assets
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
11.8.10.   Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
11.8.11.   Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
11.8.12.   Maintenance Repair/Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
11.8.13.   Classified Assets
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFJI 31-102, TO 00-5-1 and TO 00-20-1
11.8.14.   Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 32-7086 and AFI 90-821
11.8.15.   Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
                                                                                                                                             B
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and TO 00-35D-54
11.8.16.   Special Handling of Supply Assets Containing Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 24-203, AFI 32-7086, AFMAN 23-110, TO 42B2-1-3, and TO 6J3-1-1
AA8.17.    Maintenance Supply Liaison
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
                                                                                                                                             A
11.9.      TECHNICAL ORDER MANAGEMENT
11.9.1.    Technical Orders Distribution Process
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 63-101, AFTTP 3-3 and TO 00-5-1
                                                                                                                                             A
11.9.2.    Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO)
           TR: TO 00-5-15
                                                                                                                                             A
11.9.3.    Technical Order Change Process
           TR: AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                                             A
11.9.4.    Technical Order Waivers
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                                             A

                                                               121
                                                  STS 2AX7X
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                             Provided
                                                                                A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                  3-Skill
                                                                                       5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                             Level

                                                                             Course       CDC          Course      CDC


11.10.   MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
11.10.1. Cannibalization Program
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.2. Restricted Maintenance Areas
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.3. Red Ball Maintenance
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.4. Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.5. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.6. Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.7. Tool Management
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.8. Tool Accountability
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.8.1. Marking and Tool Identification
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.8.2 Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.8.3. Lost Item/Tool Procedures
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.10.9. Maintenance Recovery Team
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.11.   QUALITY ASSURANCE (QA) PROGRAM
11.11.1. Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP)
         TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                    A
11.11.2. QA Product Improvement Program
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A
11.11.3 Configuration Management (CM) and Modification Management
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                    A




                                                            122
