DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                            CFETP 2A7X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1480                                                1 May 2013




                           AFSC 2A7X1

 AIRCRAFT METALS TECHNOLOGY




       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
         AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. RELEASABILITY: There are no
releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                                                                                         CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                            AIRCRAFT METALS TECHNOLOGY SPECIALTY
                                          AFSC 2A7X1
                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


PART I
Preface.............................................................................................................................................1
Abbreviations/Terms Explained .....................................................................................................2

Section A – General Information ...................................................................................................5
       Purpose of the CFETP
       Use of the CFETP
       Coordination and Approval of the CFETP
Section B – Career Progression and Information............................................................................6
       Specialty Description
       Skill/Career Progression
              Apprentice (3) Level
              Journeyman (5) Level
              Craftsman (7) Level
              Superintendent (9) Level
       Training Decisions
       Community College of the Air Force
       Career Field Path
Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements ...........................................................................14
       Purpose
       Specialty Qualification
              Apprentice Level Training
              Journeyman Level Training
              Craftsman Level Training
              Superintendent Level Training
Section D – Resource Constraints ................................................................................................17
Section E – Transitional Training Guide ......................................................................................17

PART II
Section A – Course Objective List ...............................................................................................18
Section B – Support Materials ......................................................................................................19
Section C – Training Course Index ..............................................................................................19
Section D – MAJCOM Unique Requirements .............................................................................21
Section E – Specialty Training Standard.......................................................................................21
______________________
Supersedes: CFETP2A7X1, 1 October 2010
OPR: 361 TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ USAF/A4LF (CMSgt Michael Healy)
Pages: 47




                                                                         2
                                                                                CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                   AIRCRAFT METALS TECHNOLOGY SPECIALTY
                                 AFSC 2A7X1

PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources and minimum core task requirements for the 2A7X1, Aircraft Metals Technology
specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all
aspects of career field training. To read, review, or print a copy of the current CFETP, go to the
Aircraft Maintenance Homepage at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-LG-AF-35.

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors use both parts to plan, manage, and control
training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints to accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower,
equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt
through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors use to determine if airmen satisfied training requirements. Section B
identifies available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP)
developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training course index
supervisors use to determine resources available to support training. Included here are both
mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM-unique training requirements
supervisors use to determine additional training requirements unique to the MAJCOM. Section
E identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, and technical
references to support training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted
training, wartime course requirements, core task, and correspondence course requirements. At
the unit level, supervisors and training managers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training
commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.



                                                  1
                                                                                 CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use this to document task qualifications. The
tasks on an AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official. A person the commander assigns to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training that exceeds requirements with emphasis on
present or future duty assignments.

Contract Training. Type 1 training that receives the same priority funding as Air Force
directed training. It supports initial groups of instructors, operators, etc., that the Air Force
requires for new or modified weapon systems.

Core Task. A task that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty regardless of duty position. Only a
percentage of critical tasks for each system are listed as mandatory core tasks. This gives units
needed flexibility to manage their workforce training.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements
and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-/7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors
use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air
Force Training Program.

Course Training Standard (CTS). Training standard that identifies the training members will receive
in a specific course not covered in the CFETP.

Critical Task. Additional tasks, identified by MAJCOM Functional Managers, commanders,
and supervisors as being required for skill-level upgrade training. When designated, certify
these core tasks using normal core task certification procedures.



                                                   2
                                                                              CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013



Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field or Mobile Technical Training (Type 7). Special or regular on-site training conducted by
a training detachment (TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training (IST). A formal resident course resulting in award of a 3-skill level
AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel is taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

MAJCOM Mandatory Course Listing (MMCL). Identifies mandatory maintenance training
requirements for initial technical school graduates, retrainees, and personnel with no experience
on assigned mission design series (MDS) aircraft. It also ensures maintenance personnel receive
training commensurate to their current duty position.

Mission Design Series (MDS). Aircraft (i.e., A-10, F-16, C-130)

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR) A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify
an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training
required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment, that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the
overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career Development



                                                 3
                                                                               CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


Courses, and exportable courses.

Training Business Area (TBA). TBA is a Net_Centric GCSS-AF IF Web-Based application providing
Air Force Warfighters with global, real_time visibility into the technical qualifications, certifications and
training status of logistics, communications and information professionals Air Force wide. TBA
supports base, wing and work center level training management activities by automating training
management business processes.

Training by Other Government Agencies. This training includes training conducted
by the Army, Navy, Air Force agency or unit other than AETC, and other government agencies
inside or outside of the Department of Defense (DoD).

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job,
field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and
CDCs required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and
Training Pipeline Manager, and consisting of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional
managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel who determine career ladder
training requirements.

Web Site Links

 Air Force Career Development Academy http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/
CCAF           http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/
CAF MCL (Portal) https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/users/confirm.asp?Filter=OO-TE-AC-42
ETCA            https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
HQ USAF/A4LF (Portal) https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-LG-AF-35
MAF MCL https://amclg.scott.af.mil/lgm/lgmm/lgmmt/hello.html
361 TRS (Portal)         https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=s6925EC1349430FB5E044080020E329A9
367 TRS/TRSS            https://367trss.hill.af.mil/IMI.html
982 MXS/ LGMS           https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=s6925EC1353200FB5E044080020E329A9

Section A - General Information

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force
Career Field Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders,
training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective
career field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A7X1
should receive to develop and progress throughout their career. This CFETP identifies initial
skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the
AFSC specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining
into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC


                                                 4
                                                                                 CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


at Sheppard AFB, TX. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task
qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the
3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training
designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both
during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance
skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for
selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable
advanced training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills
and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes,
some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and identifies
the training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, Training
Detachment (TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining the resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable
courses can satisfy these identified requirements. MAJCOM developed training, to support this
AFSC, must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available
training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The
AETC Training Manager for AFSC 2A7X1 will initiate an annual review of this document by
AETC and MFM to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and
AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements.
Use the list of courses in Part II to eliminate duplicate training.



                                                   5
                                                                            CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013



Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD),
paragraph 1. Designs, welds, heat treats, repairs, fabricates, and machines precision tools,
components, and assemblies for aerospace weapon systems and related support equipment (SE).
Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 170000.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
(AFECD), paragraph 2.

4.2.1. Advises on machining, welding, designing, and fabrication. Designs, manufactures, or modifies
precision tools, gauges, dies, and fixtures to facilitate metal working operations. Performs shop
functions such as: determining machine calculations and settings, welding processes, and heat treatment
requirements. Uses manual and computer numerical controlled (CNC) metal working machines such as
mills, lathes, water and plasma equipment and 3D laser scanners to manufacture and repair aircraft
components and SE. Writes programs for CNC machines using Computer Aided Design (CAD) and
Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAM), along with manual data input.

4.2.1.1. Inspects and repairs components on SE, aircraft and space systems. Uses metal working
equipment, tools, and supplies to meet precision specifications and tolerances.

4.2.1.2. Maintains and inspects hand tools and metal working machinery. Performs operator
maintenance and service inspections on shop equipment and tools. Ensures lock out and tag out
procedures are accomplished prior to maintenance on all equipment. Uses and disposes of hazardous
materials according to environmental standards.

4.2.2. Plans and schedules metals technology activities. Interprets technical publications,
blueprints, and drawings to resolve problems related to aircraft systems and support equipment.
Establishes priorities for completion of maintenance tasks and provides assistance in solving
maintenance, supply, and personnel issues. Provides training feedback and task qualification
for skill level advancement. Establishes performance standards and improves work methods.
Supervises and evaluates job performance and maintenance techniques. Ensures maintenance
and safety policy compliance for all metals technology activities. Maintains and documents
equipment, supply, certification, training, and aircraft forms. Evaluates requirements and
prepares quality deficiency reports. Ensures hazardous materials and waste are handled, stored,
and disposed of according to local and federal environmental standards.

4.2.3. Plans, organizes, and directs aircraft fabrication maintenance activities. Manages maintenance and
staff functions for Aircraft Metals Technology, Aircraft Structural Maintenance, Low Observable
Aircraft Structural Maintenance, and Non-Destructive Inspection elements. Establishes production
controls. Interprets directives and publications pertaining to fabrication maintenance. Analyzes
maintenance management reports. Interprets and evaluates directives and publications, inspection
findings, records, and reports and recommends corrective actions. Establishes safety and training



                                                6
                                                                               CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


guidelines. Plans, organizes, directs, and controls troubleshooting and repair activities of fabrication
personnel. Manages and controls fabrication flight resources including personnel, facilities, funds,
supplies, and equipment. Manages handling, storing, and disposing of hazardous materials and waste
according to local and federal environmental standards.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective
training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives
necessary training at appropriate points in their career.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Following Basic Military Training, initial skills training will be
provided in a resident course at 361 Training Squadron, Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas. The course
will lay the foundation for additional training at the graduate's first duty assignment. Trainees will utilize
the career development courses (CDCs), task qualification training, and other exportable courses to
progress in their career field. Once the trainer task qualifies the trainee, the trainee may perform the task
unsupervised.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into continuation
training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and skill in troubleshooting and
solving more complex problems. Five-levels may be assigned job positions such as quality assurance
and various other staff positions. Prior to assuming the rank of SSgt, 5-levels will complete Airman
Leadership School (ALS) to enhance their Professional Military Education (PME). Five-levels will be
considered for appointment as unit trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted
Airman Promotion testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a Community
College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. An NCO can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions
such as shift leader, element chief, task certifier, and other various staff positions. Exportable MDS
specific courses and MAJCOM/unit directed courses are also available. Seven levels should take courses
or obtain added knowledge in management of resources and personnel. Continued academic education
through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged. In addition, prior to assuming the rank of
MSgt, individuals will complete the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA).

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief,
production supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget,
manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education.
Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFS is also recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass
the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Aircraft Metals Technology career field. The
spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training requirements. The strategy
must ensure we develop affordable training, eliminate duplication, and prevent a fragmented approach to
training. The following training decisions were made at the career field utilization and training
workshop held at Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas from 10-14 Dec 2012.




                                                  7
                                                                              CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


6.1. Initial Skills. The initial skills course was revised as a result of MAJCOM requirements. There
were numerous line items changed for clarity. Additions and deletions were based on MAJCOM
requirements. This has resulted in the ninety six day course being reduced to an estimated seventy days
– subject to validation. Items deleted from the initial skills course include manufacture of fixtures/jigs;
system of fits; bearing roller staking and swaging; heat treating carbon steel and aluminum alloys;
operate and maintain drill press; band saw; keyseat milling; identify grinding wheels; flat fillet welds;
braze ferrous metals; shielded metal ARC welding and weld titanium.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Requirements. 5-level core tasks remain the same and the 7-level core tasks
have increased slightly. CDCs will require extensive rewrite – it is anticipated this will result in four
volumes. The CDC were reviewed and found to contain significant amounts of outdated material and
procedures that are no longer pertinent to the career field. In Volume 1 changes to the metals processing
and shop mathematics. In Volume 2 changes to include more computer aided drafting (CAD) and less
manual drafting. Simplify the section on NDI impositions and system of fits. Removing sections
contained in the T.O. 1-1A-8. In Volume 3 update the graphics, taps/tapping operations and lubricating
shop equipment. Deleting sign bars and simplifying the section on grinding wheels, water-jet pumps,
file bands and friction sawing. Volume 4 updates the sections on CNC and cutters. Removes gang and
straddle milling, reamer flutes, wide range indexing, milling attachments, tool and cutter and surface
grinders. In Volume 5 oxyacetylene welding, Arc welding, plasma arc welding, and resistance welding
will be deleted.

6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements. Core task for 7-level have increased slightly.

6.4. Supplemental Training. The following changes were made to the supplemental courses:

6.4.1 Supplemental Training. The supplemental courses J3AZP2A751 0C1A Computer Numerical
Control (CNC) and Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAM) and J3AZP2A751 0M1A Advanced Metals
Processing were requested to be combined into one supplemental course. The new course title
Advanced Metallurgy and Computer Numeric Control (CNC) Manufacturing will have a course code of
J3AZP2A751 0M2A. The resulting course will be a total of 19 days.

6.5. Continuation Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements that were not taught
through initial or upgrade training are assigned to unit training or Training Detachments. The purpose
of the continuation training program is to provide additional training exceeding minimum upgrade
training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions. MAJCOMs develop a
proficiency training program that ensures individuals in the Aircraft Metals Technology career field
receive the necessary training at the appropriate point in their career. The program identifies both
mandatory and optional training requirements.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF is one of several federally chartered degree-
granting institutions and the only 2-year institution serving only military enlisted personnel. The college
is a multi-campus institution and is regionally accredited through Air University by the Commission on
Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) to award AAS degrees designed
for specific Air Force occupational specialties. The college offers 68 technical degree programs serving
more than 355,000 students at more than 100 worldwide affiliated technical training schools.




                                                 8
                                                                                                          CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity
to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences technical degree.

7.1. CCAF Degree Requirements. All enlisted airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF
program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:

                                                                                        Semester Hours

     Technical Education..........................................................................24
     Leadership, Management, and Military Studies .................................6
     Physical Education ..............................................................................4
     General Education .............................................................................15
     Program Elective ...............................................................................15
                                                                                          Total: 64

7.1.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the career field apprentice course
satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A minimum of 24 semester hours
of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.

7.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Enlisted Professional
Military Education (EPME) and/or civilian management courses.

7.1.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic
Military Training.

7.1.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the
definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

7.1.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including natural
science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree applicable
technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF General
Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.2. Professional Certifications. Certifications assist the professional development of our Airmen by
broadening their knowledge and skills. Additionally, specific certifications may be award collegiate
credit by CCAF and civilian colleges, saving time and Air Force tuition assistance funds. It also helps
airmen to be better prepared for transition to civilian life. To learn more about professional
certifications and certification programs offered by CCAF, visit
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF
offers the following certification programs and resources:

7.2.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC Program for
qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated a high level of
professional accomplishment. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes the instructor's


                                                                 9
                                                                              CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to teach a CCAF course,
and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience.

7.2.2. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF offers the
ISD Certification Program for qualified curriculum developers and managers who are formally assigned
at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses. The ISD Certification is a
professional credential that recognizes the curriculum developer’s or manager’s extensive training,
education, qualifications and experience required to develop and manage CCAF courses. The
certification also recognizes the individual’s ISD qualifications and experience in planning, developing,
implementing and managing instructional systems.

 7.2.3. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC Program for
qualified Air Force NCO’s. The PMC is a professional credential awarded by CCAF that formally
recognizes an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and management, as
well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a structured professional development
track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME) and Career Field Education
and Training Plan (CFETP).

7.2.4. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) Certification. Air
Force aircraft maintenance technicians are eligible to pursue FAA A&P certification based on training
and experience in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulation Part 65. The DoD established the Joint
Service Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification Council (JSAMTCC) to standardize the
eligibility and certification process for the military and provide direction and resources necessary to fill
the gaps within military training and experience. Completing the Air Force A&P Certification Program,
managed by CCAF, will fill training and experience gaps, ensuring FAA eligibility. The program
consists of three Air University Online A&P Specialized Courses, OJT and experience requirements
contained in a Qualification Training Package (QTP). Technicians may enroll in the program once they
have been awarded the 5-skill level. To learn more, visit CCAF at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp . CCAF awards 30 semester hours for FAA A&P
certification and 18 semester hours for FAA Airframe or Powerplant certification.

7.2.5. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented CERT to
increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air Force occupational
specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and provides information related to
specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian occupation equivalencies (US Department of
Labor); CCAF degree programs; national professional certifications; certifying agencies; DANTES
testing; and professional organizations.

7.3. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Instructor Requirements: Additional off-duty
education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC
instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain
accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.

8. Career Field Path

8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A7X1 AFSC.




                                                10
                                                                                      CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013

                                          Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                        Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                     Rank        Average           Earliest       High Year
                                                                    Sew-On            Sew-On         Of Tenure
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)             Amn         6 months
                                                        A1C         16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                   Amn         6 months
- Minimum 12 months OJT                                 A1C         16 months
- Minimum 9 months OJT for retrainees                   SrA         3 years           28 months      8 years
- Complete all 5-level core tasks
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                   Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service          -Trained and qualified to perform the task to be trained
  or be a SSgt Selectee.                                -Must attend the Air Force Training Course (AFTC)
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                                                                                 Certifier
                                                       -Minimum rank of SSgt with a 5-skill level, or civilian
                                                       equivalent, capable of evaluating the task being certified,
                                                       and have completed the AFTC.
                                                       - Attend formal AF Trainer Course.
                                                       - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs,
                                                       duty positions, units, and/or work centers with specialized
                                                       training standardization and certification requirements.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                   SSgt         5.3 years         3 years        15 years
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- Minimum 12 Months OJT
- Minimum 6 Months OJT for retrainees
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA) -               TSgt         10.8 years       5 years        20 years
Must be a MSgt, MSgt Selectee, or TSgt
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt       MSgt         15.6 years       8 years        24 years
  sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)              SMSgt        19.5 years       11 years       26 years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee
- A percentage of top nonselect (for promotion to
  E-8) MSgts attend the SNCOA each year
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  CMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only)
Chief Enlisted Manger (CEM)                            CMSgt        23.1 years       14 years       30 years


Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the 2A7X1 career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill


                                                      11
                                                                              CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention
of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II,
Section E, Specialty Training Standard (STS).

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements. The various skill levels in this career field are defined in
terms of tasks and knowledge proficiency requirements for each skill level. They are stated in broad
general terms and establish the standards of performance. Unit work centers must develop a structured
training program to ensure the following requirements are met.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training:

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description in Air
Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: metal repair and fabrication processes; composition
of metals and machinable materials; weld specifications; metal tempering; forging; mechanical
drawings; use of precision measuring devices and tools; metal fabricating by oxyacetylene, metallic arc,
and inert gas shielded arc; operation and capacity of metal working and welding equipment; use and
fabrication of layout and fixture devices; safety codes and practices regarding equipment and supplies;
hazards of explosive gasses, hazardous dust, rays, and fumes; and proper handling, use, and disposal of
hazardous materials.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
mathematics, metal working, and CAD is desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A731, completion of the Aircraft Metals Technology
Apprentice Course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. None.

10.1.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal depth perception as defined in AFI 48-123 and Air
Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) is mandatory.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The initial skills course will provide the required knowledge
and 3-skill level apprentice qualification.

10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training (BMT), completion of the
Aircraft Metals Technology Apprentice course is mandatory. This course satisfies the knowledge and
training resource requirements for award of the 3-skill level.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description in Air
Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.




                                                12
                                                                             CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


10.2.1.1. Knowledge. A 5-skill level must possess knowledge of: metal repair and fabrication processes;
composition of metals and machinable materials; weld specifications; metal heat treatment; blueprints,
technical orders and drawings; initiation of engineering disposition for aircraft and support equipment
repairs; use of precision measuring devices and tools; fabrication using oxyacetylene, metallic arc, and
inert gas shielded arc; operation and capacity of metal working and welding equipment; use and
fabrication of layout tools and fixture devices; safety codes, and practices regarding equipment and
supplies; hazards of explosive and compressed gasses; hazardous rays, dust and fumes; and proper
handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials.

10.2.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.2.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A751, the 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge training
required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core tasks
identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base, and
provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFS 2A731. Also, experience in functions such
as gas and electric welding, boring, milling, shaping, grinding metal, or using precision measuring
devices. Completion of all 5-level core tasks identified in the STS is mandatory.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months on-the-job training (9 months for
retrainees), completion of the 2A751 CDC and completion of the 5-level core tasks represent the
requirements for award to the Journeyman 5-skill level.

10.2.3. Implementation. N/A

10.2.4. Welding Certification. Journeyman will be certified NLT 12 months (24 months ARC)
following award of 5-skill level.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training:

10.3.1 Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. A 7-level must possess knowledge of: metal repair and fabrication
processes; composition of metals and machinable materials; weld specifications; metal heat treatment;
blueprints, technical orders and drawings; validation of engineering disposition for aircraft and support
equipment repairs; use of precision measuring devices and tools; fabrication using oxyacetylene,
metallic arc, and inert gas shielded arc; operation and capacity of metal working and welding equipment;
use of layout tools and fixtures; safety codes, and practices regarding equipment and supplies, to include
hazards of rays, dust, fumes, and compressed gases; and proper handling, use, and disposal of hazardous
waste and materials.

10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.



                                                13
                                                                             CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013



10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of mandatory CDCs and 7-level core tasks are mandatory for upgrade to
2A771.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFS 2A751. Also, experience supervising
functions dealing with welding, using precision measuring devices, and machining. Completion of all 5
and 7 level core tasks identified in the STS is mandatory.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources.
A minimum of 12 months on-the-job training (6 months for retrainees), completion of the 2AX7X CDC
and completion of the 7-level core tasks represent the requirements for award to the 7-skill level.

10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level requires completion of the 2AX7X CDC and 12
months upgrade training (9 months for retrainees).

10.4. Superintendent-Level Training:

10.4.1 Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: aircraft structural repair, low observable (where
applicable), metals technology, corrosion control, and non-destructive inspection methods;
characteristics of metals identification; concepts and application of maintenance directives; maintenance
data reporting; and proper use, handling, and disposal of hazardous waste and materials.

10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A790, promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2A790, qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A771,
2A772, 2A773, or 2A775 is mandatory. Also, experience in managing or directing repair activities for
aircraft structural maintenance, metals technology, corrosion control, low observable aircraft structural
maintenance, or non-destructive inspection specialties and functions is mandatory.

10.4.1.5. Other. Not Used.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. Duty position qualification represents the required sources
for upgrade to the 9-skill level. Note: SNCOA is not a requirement for 9-level upgrade.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.

Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired training
from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative



                                                14
                                                                               CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint
has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required, office of primary
responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and
updated annually.

12. Apprentice-Level Training: No manpower/man-year constraints were identified.

13. Five-Level Training: No 5-level resource constraints were identified by the U&TW.

14. Supplemental Training. No resource constraints were identified by the U&TW.

Section E - Transitional Training Guide. There are no transition training requirements. This area is
reserved.

PART II

Section A - Course Objective List

1. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each
task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is
expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes
place. The behavior is the action a student must demonstrate to accomplish a task (i.e., remove
and install wheel and tire assembly). The standard is the level of performance that is measured
to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses letter code(s) to
identify how it is measured. All objectives use the PC code that indicates a progress check is
used to measure subject or task knowledge. Progress checks are also used to measure student
accomplishment of performance objectives. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is
used to measure the subject and/or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W
indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written
test and a performance progress check.

2. Standard. The minimum standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for
performance measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual’s
progress checklist. The instructor documents each students’ progress for the on the checklist.
Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be
required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students
must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

3. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the "2b" proficiency level.
The "2b" means the student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the
hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step
procedures for doing the task.

4. Course Objectives. If you require detailed course descriptions and objectives, please



                                                 15
                                                                            CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


provide a written request to the AETC Training Manager, 361 TRS/TRR, 501 Missile Road,
Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2264.

Section B - Support Material

5. The following list of support material is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas. Support material is any training package designed to enhance the
learning process at any level of training. Refer to the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses.
ETCA can be accessed at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
Metals Technology Community of Practice website:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-DR-AN-01

5.1. Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from (or under development by)
367 TRS/TRSS, Hill AFB, Utah. Their course catalog is available on the Internet at
https://367catalog.hill.af.mil/. Questions should be referred to the
customer service number at DSN 777-0160.

Section C - Training Course Index

6. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies Air Force resident, Air Force non-resident (Air Force
Career Development Academy or AFCDA) and exportable courses used to support training for the
2A7X1 Aircraft Metals specialty. Refer to the Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements
(ETCA) at https://etca.randolph.af.mil for information on AETC formal courses listed below. For further
information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:
              361 TRS/TRR
              501 Missile Road
              Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2264
              DSN 736-7492

7. Air Force In-Resident Courses

                                  COURSE
       COURSE NO.                                            LOCATION        OPR
                                  TITLE
J3ABR2A731 048A             Aircraft Metals             Sheppard AFB         361TRS/
                            Technology Apprentice       TX                   TRR

J3AZR2A751 0M1B            Advanced Metallurgy          Sheppard AFB         361TRS/
                           and Computer Numeric         TX                   TRR
                           Control (CNC)
                           Manufacturing




                                               16
                                                                             CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


8. Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA) Courses.

  COURSE NO.                   COURSE TITLE                               OPR
                        Aircraft Metals Technology
CDC2A751                                                            361TRS/TRR
                        Journeyman
CDC2AX7X                Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman             HQ USAF/A4LF


Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from or are under development by
367 TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB, Utah and 982 MXS/LGMS at Sheppard AFB, Texas.

For further information contact the OPRs at:
    367 TRSS                             982 MXS/LGMS
    6058 Aspen Ave                       912 I Ave Ste 4
    Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805              Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334
    DSN 777-7830/8741                    DSN 736-3001
    https://367trss.hill.af.mil/IMI.html https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                                         af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageI
                                         d=s6925EC1353200FB5E044080020E329A9

Section D - MAJCOM-Unique Requirements.

10. For MAJCOM-unique requirements, refer to the following web sites:
Combat Air Force (CAF): https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-TE-AC-42
Mobility Air Force (MAF): https://amclg.scott.af.mil/lgm/lgmm/lgmmt/docs/mcl.pdf

Section E - Specialty Training Standard

11. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and
Training Command. It was approved by MAJCOM Functional Managers at the 10-14 Dec 2012
Utilization and Training Workshop. This CFETP/STS will be implemented with the class beginning Oct
2013 and graduating Jan 2014.

12. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

12.1. Lists in column 1 (Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical References) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level.

12.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks), by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
Qualification on all AFCFM directed core tasks applicable to the specialty must be completed for skill
level upgrade.

12.2.1. Core tasks, which are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment, are not required for
upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training).



                                                17
                                                                             CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


12.2.2. Units that use the GO81 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete Integrated
Maintenance Data System (IMDS) Web-Based Training (WBT) core tasks. However, these units must
be capable of training IMDS-related WBT core tasks for deployment preparation. This capability
ensures GO81 users are capable of operating IMDS prior to deploying to IMDS using units.

12.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or completed date.

12.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency
to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task/knowledge and the
career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. When two codes are used in columns 4A and
4C (e.g. 2b/b), the first code is the established requirement for resident training on the task/knowledge,
and the second code indicates the level of training provided in the course due to equipment shortages or
other resource constraints. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for
current CDC listing.

12.5. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Occupational Measurement
Squadron, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample
knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate
for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog.
Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program. WAPS is not applicable to
the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

13. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the
level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

14. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training
when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. For
OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. "Go" means the individual can
perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct
procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

14.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201. Automated
records, utilizing IMDS/GO81, reflecting this STS may be used and is highly encouraged. The use of
Training Business Area (TBA) is mandatory for training documentation and attachments one and two of
this CFETP must be used. Attachment 3 is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level
Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDCs.

14.2. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are replaced
by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this CFETP STS is mandatory. Use this
CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current qualifications. Document and
certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.




                                                18
                                                                         CFETP 2A7X1, 1 May 2013


15. Specialty Training Standard (STS). Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the
Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the
AETC Airman Advancement Division by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their
career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team
members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references
listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion
Program. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

16. Recommendations: Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to the AETC
training manager at 361 TRS/TRR, 501 Missile Road, Sheppard AFB TX, 76311-2264, DSN 736-7492.
Reference specific STS paragraphs. A customer service information line has been installed for the
supervisor's convenience to identify graduates who may have received over or under training on
task/knowledge items listed in this training standard. For a quick response to problems, call our
customer service information line, DSN 736-5236, any time, day or night.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                            JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                    Lieutenant General, USAF
                                    DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support

3 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. Specialty Training Standard (STS)
3. 2AX7X CDC STS




                     THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                                             19
                                                               PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                                                                                                                              CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013



This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                    Initials (Written)                             SSAN (last Four)


                                                         Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I

N/I                                                                                                N/I



                                                         QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                                            Proficiency Code Key
                                             Scale Value             Definition: The individual

                                                    1                IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown
                                                                     how to do most of the task.)
                                                                     IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest
                                                    2                parts.)
                                                    3                IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
   Task Performance                                                  IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or
                                                    4
        Levels                                                       show others how to do the task.)
                                                    a                KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. )
                                                                     KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. )
                                                    b
                                                                     KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done
                                                     c               and why each step is needed.)
   *Task Knowledge                                                   KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the
        Levels                                      d                task.)
                                                    A                KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)

                                                    B   KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles
                                                        about the subject.)
                                                        KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the
                                           C            subject.)
 **Subject Knowledge                                    KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
           Levels                          D            subject.)
Explanations * A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

 ** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any
specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.

-This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the courses or CDCs. / This mark is used in course
columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources (3c/b, 2b/b etc.).




                                                                                                                                                Attachment 1
                                                                                       23
                                                SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                                      CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                        2. Core     3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                           Tasks                                                                Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References             A     B       A          B            C         D          E           A            B          C
                                                                                                                              3-Skill      CDC        7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level                   Level
                                                                      Tng        Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                         5     7      Start     Comp       Initials   Initials   Initials
                                                                                                                        Course      5           7     Course
ATTACHMENT 2
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All knowledge and tasks identified as training requirements in column 4A will be taught during wartime.
NOTE 3: Items in column 2A/2B marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-7492.



A2.1. OPERATION SECURITY (OPSEC)                                                                                               A         -      -        -
VULNERABILITIES of AFSC 2A7X1 TR: AFI 10-
701


A2.2. AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM TR: AFI 91-203,
Applicable OSHA/AFOSH Standards, TO 00-25-252
and 42B5-1-2 , AFI32-7042



A2.2.1. Hazards of AFSC 2A7X1                                                                                                  A         B      -        -

A2.2.2. Conduct Safety Inspections
                                                        *                                                                      2b        b      -        -
A2.2.2.1. Work area TR: AFI 91-203


A2.2.2.2. Equipment TR: AFI 91-203, TO 34-1-3 and
                                                        *                                                                      2b        -      -        -
42B5-1-2

A2.2.3. Hazardous Materials And Waste Handling
IAW Environmental Standards TR: AFI 90-821 and
AFOSH STD 48-8 and 48-22

A2.2.3.1. Types of hazardous materials/fluids                                                                                  B         -      -        -

A2.2.3.2. Handling/disposal procedures TR:
                                                                                                                               B         -      -        -
Applicable MSDS
A2.2.3.3. Storage and labeling                                                                                                  -        -      -        -

A2.2.4. Classes Of Fire Extinguishers                                                                                          A         -      -        -

A2.2.5. HAZCOM                                                                                                                 B         -      -        -
A2.2.6. AF Form 55 or local equivalent (Employee
Safety and Health Record) TR: AFI 90-821 and AFI                                                                                -        -      -        -
91-203
A2.2.6.1. MRM                                                                                                                  A         -      -        -




                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                                                           24
                                                   SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                                    CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                       2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                          Tasks                                                               Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A      B      A          B            C         D          E           A            B          C
                                                                                                                           3-Skill       CDC        7 Skill
                                                                                                                            Level                   Level
                                                                   Tng         Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                        5     7    Start      Comp       Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      5      7     Course

A2.2.7. Perform Lockout/Tagout TR: AFI 91-203          *                                                                      a        -      -        -

A2.2.8. Respiratory Protection Equipment TR:
                                                                                                                              -        -      -        -
AFOSH STD 48-137
A2.3. SUPERVISION AND TRAINING TR: AFI 21-
101, 36-2201, and Air Force Enlisted Classification
Directory (AFECD)


A2.3.1. Supervise Personnel
A2.3.1.1. Orient new personnel                                                                                                -        -      -        -

A2.3.1.2. Counsel personnel                                                                                                   -        -      -        -

A2.3.1.3. Evaluate Personnel
A2.3.1.3.1. Perform feedback                                                                                                  -        -      -        -

A2.3.1.3.2. Recommend personnel actions                                                                                       -        -      -        -

A2.3.2. Train Personnel
A2.3.2.1. Determine training requirements                                                                                     -        -      -        -

A2.3.2.2. OJT Trainer Requirements
A2.3.2.2.1. Provide training                                                                                                  -        -      -        -

A2.3.2.2.2. Provide feedback                                                                                                  -        -      -        -

A2.3.2.3. OJT Task Certifier Requirements
A2.3.2.3.1. Evaluate trainee                                                                                                  -        -      -        -

A2.3.2.3.2. Provide feedback on training results                                                                              -        -      -        -

A2.3.2.3.3 Maintain records                                                                                                   -        -      -        -

A2.3.3. Plan/Schedule Maintenance And Repair Work

A2.3.3.1. Analyze workload requirements                                                                                       -        -      -        -

A2.3.3.2. Coordinate with other agencies                                                                                      -        -      -        -

A2.3.4. Manage Resources TR: AFI 21-101 and
AFMAN 23-110
A2.3.4.1. Maintain equipment accountability                                                                                   -        -      -        -

A2.3.4.2. Establish/maintain supply levels                                                                                    -        -      -        -




                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                         25
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                   2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A             B           C
                                                                                                                      3-Skill        CDC         7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level                     Level
                                                              Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5     7   Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      5       7      Course
A2.3.4.3. Interpret supply computer products                                                                             -         -      -         -

A2.4. DOCUMENTATION
TR: AFMAN 23-110, TOs 00-20-1,
00-25-252, and 34-1-3
A2.4.1. Annotate Forms
A2.4.1.1. Aircraft Form (AFTO Form 781A)           *                                                                     b        b       -         -

A2.4.1.2. Equipment Form (AFTO Form 244)           *                                                                    2b        b       -         -

A2.4.1.3. Welding certification (DD Form 2757)            *                                                              -        b       -         -
A2.4.1.4. Aircraft Safe For Maintenance TR:         -
                                                                                                                         -         -      -         -
Applicable Weapons MDS Job Guides

A2.4.2. IMDS/CAMS TR: AFSCM 21-56 Intro to
CAMS, TO 00-20 series, and applicable -06

A2.4.2.1. Use                                      *                                                                     -         -      -         -

A2.4.2.2. Standard Base Supply System (SBSS)
                                                                                                                         -         -      -         -
interface
A2.4.3. Core Automated Maintenance System for
Mobility (GO-81) TR: 8081/SBSS System Interface
User’s Guide


A2.4.3.1. Use                                      *                                                                     -         -      -         -

A2.4.3.2. SBSS interface                                                                                                 -         -      -         -

A2.5. TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS TR:
Applicable Maintenance TOs, Machinery’s Handbook

A2.5.1. Types                                                                                                           A         -       -         -

A2.5.2. Maintain                                                                                                         -        -       -         -

A2.5.3. Use                                        *                                                                    2b        -       -         -

A2.5.4. Interactive Electronic Technical Manuals
                                                   *                                                                    A         -       -         -
(IETMs)
A2.6. SHOP MATHEMATICS
TR: Machinery’s Handbook

A2.6.1. Calculate                                  *                                                                    2b        b       -         -




                                                                                                                       Attachment 2
                                                                   26
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                                    CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                       2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                          Tasks                                                               Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                              Training/Information
                                                                                                                              Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A      B      A          B            C         D          E           A             B           C
                                                                                                                           3-Skill        CDC         7 Skill
                                                                                                                            Level                     Level
                                                                   Tng         Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                        5     7    Start      Comp       Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      5       7      Course

A2.7. DRAWINGS AND LAYOUT TR: Weapon
System TOs, Machinery’s Handbook

A2.7.1. Interpret Blueprints/Shop Drawings              *                                                                    2b        b       -         -

A2.7.2. Construct Manual Drawings                       *                                                                    2b        b       -         -

A2.7.3.. Perform Layout Operations                      *                                                                    2b        b       -         -


A2.7.4 Computer Aided Design (CAD)

A2.7.4.1. Construct drawings                           *                                                                     2b        B       -         -

A2.7.4.2. Construct solid models                       *                                                                     2b        B       -         -

A2.7.4.3. Construct 2D geometry                                                                                               -         -      -         -

A2.7.4.4. Construct 3D geometry                                                                                               -         -      -         -

A2.7.4.5. Construct surfaces                                                                                                  -         -      -         -

A2.7.5. Computer aided manufacturing (CAM)

A2.7.5.1. Generate 2D toolpaths/programs                     *                                                                -        B       -         -

A2.7.5.2. Generate 3-axis surface toolpaths/programs         *                                                                -         -      -         -

A2.7.5.3. Generate 4-axis surface toolpaths/programs                                                                          -         -      -         -

A2.7.5.4. Create part geometry for lathes                                                                                     -        B       -         -

A2.7.5.5. Generate toolpaths for lathes                                                                                       -        B       -         -

A2.8. /MANUFACTURE TR: Weapon System TOs,
Machinery’s Handbook

A2.8.1. Special Tools                                        *                                                                -        b       -         -

A2.8.2. Fixtures/Jigs                                        *                                                                -        b       -         -

A2.8.3. Parts                                          *                                                                     2b        b       -         -

A2.8.4. Dies                                                                                                                  -        a       -         -
A2.9. FIT MACHINED PARTS TR: Weapon System
TOs, Machinery’s Handbook, TO 1-1A-8, TO 44B
and 44H Series


A2.9.1. System of Fits                                                                                                        -        B       -         -




                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                                                         27
                                                SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                                CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013

                                                    2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                       Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A             B         C
                                                                                                                       3-Skill        CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level                   Level
                                                               Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                     5     7   Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      5      7     Course
A2.9.2. Remove Defective
A2.9.2.1. Plugs                                                                                                           -        b      -        -

A2.9.2.2. Screws                                    *                                                                     b        b      -        -

A2.9.2.3. Bolts                                     *                                                                     b        b      -        -

A2.9.3. Remove/Install
A2.9.3.1. Studs                                                                                                           -        b      -        -

A2.9.3.1.1. Locking ring inserts                                                                                          b        b      -        -

A2.9.3.1.2. Heli-coil inserts                       *                                                                     b        b      -        -

A2.9.3.1.3. Slim inserts                                                                                                  b        b      -        -

A2.9.3.1.4. Keenserts (Pinned Inserts)                                                                                    -        b      -        -

A2.9.3.2. Pins                                                                                                            b        b      -        -

A2.9.3.3. Bushings                                  *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.9.3.4. Bearings
A2.9.3.4.1. Roller staking                                                                                                -        b      -        -

A2.9.3.4.2. Swaged                                                                                                        -        b      -        -
A2.9.3.5. Use Liquid Nitrogen/Dry Ice To Install                                                                                   b
                                                                                                                          -               -        -
Bushings
A2.10. METALS PROCESSING
TR: SAE-AMS H-81200B SAE
AMS-6088, -6875 and -7199, TOs 11A-1, 1-1A-8, 1-
1A-9, 42C2-1-7, and 42B5-1-2, Unified Numbering
System

A2.10.1. Metals Properties and Identification                                                                            A         B      -        -

A2.10.2. Identify Metals By
A2.10.2.1. Mechanical testing                                                                                             -        b      -        -

A2.10.2.2. Standard codes                           *                                                                     a        b      -        -

A2.10.3. Determine Metal Properties
A2.10.3.1. Physical                                                                                                       -        B      -        -

A2.10.3.2. Mechanical                                                                                                     -        B      -        -

A2.10.4. Hardness Tester
A2.10.4.1. Operate                                  *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.10.4.2. Maintain                                                                                                       -        b      -        -



                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                                    28
                                                   SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                                   CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013

                                                       2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                          Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                             Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A             B         C
                                                                                                                          3-Skill        CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                           Level                   Level
                                                                  Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                        5     7   Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      5      7     Course
A2.10.5. Heat Treat
A2.10.5.1. Ferrous metals
A2.10.5.1.1. Carbon steels                             *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.10.5.1.2. Alloy steels                              *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.10.5.1.3. Corrosion resistant steels                                                                                      -        b      -        -

A2.10.5.2. Nonferrous metals
A2.10.5.2.1. Aluminum alloys                           *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.10.5.2.2. Titanium alloys                                                                                                 -        -      -        -

A2.10.5.2.3. Copper Alloys                                                                                                   -        -      -        -

A2.10.5.2.4. Heat and corrosion resistant alloys                                                                             -        -      -        -

A2.10.5.3. Maintain equipment                                                                                                -        a      -        -

A2.10.6. Brushplating                                                                                                        -        a      -        -

A2.10.7. Passivation                                                                                                         -        a      -        -

A2.10.8. Roto Peening                                                                                                        a        a      -        -

A2.11. TOOLS TR: Applicable 32-Series TOs;
Machinery’s Handbook

A2.11.1. Use
A2.11.1.1. Handtools                                   *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.11.1.2. Precision measuring devices                 *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.11.1.3. Indexable cutting inserts                                                                                         a        b      -        -

A2.11.2. Maintain
A2.11.2.1. Handtools                                                                                                        2b        b      -        -

A2.11.2.2. Precision measuring devices                                                                                      2b        b      -        -

A2.11.3. Sharpen Drill Bits                            *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.11.4. Composite Tool Kits (CTKs) TR: AFI 21-
101
A2.11.4.1. Inventory                                   *                                                                    2b        -      -        -

A2.11.4.2. Maintain                                                                                                         2b        -      -        -




                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                                                       29
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                   2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A             B         C
                                                                                                                      3-Skill        CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level                   Level
                                                              Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5     7   Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      5      7     Course
A2.11.4.3. Tool Control Software                                                                                         -        -      -        -

A2.12. MEDIA BLASTER
TR: Operator’s Manual, TO 1-1-8

A2.12.1. Operate                                                                                                         -        b      -        -

A2.12.2. Maintain                                                                                                        -        b      -        -

A2.13. PRESS TR: Machinery’s Handbook, TO 34-
1-10

A2.13.1. Arbor Press
A2.13.1.1. Operate                                 *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.13.1.2. Maintain                                                                                                      -        b      -        -

A2.13.2. Hydraulic Press
A2.13.2.1. Operate                                 *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.13.2.2. Maintain                                                                                                      -        b      -        -
                                                                                                                         -        B      -        -
A2.14. COOLANTS/CUTTING FLUIDS TR:
Machinery’s Handbook
A2.15. DRILL PRESS TR: Machinery’s Handbook,
Operator’s Manual, TO 32-1-151 and 34-1-10


A2.15.1. Operate                                   *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.15.2. Maintain                                                                                                        -        b      -        -

A2.16. LATHE TR: Machinery’s Handbook,
Operator’s Manual, TO 34-1-10

A2.16.1. Manual Equipment
A2.16.1.1. Turn/face                               *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.16.1.2. Taper turn using
A2.16.1.2.1. Tailstock offset                                                                                            b        b      -        -

A2.16.1.2.2. Compound rest                         *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.16.1.2.3. Taper attachment                                                                                            b        b      -        -

A2.16.1.3. Bore                                    *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.16.1.4. Knurl                                                                                                         b        b      -        -




                                                                                                                       Attachment 2
                                                                   30
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                                CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                   2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Tasks                                                               Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A      B      A          B            C         D          E           A            B          C
                                                                                                                       3-Skill       CDC        7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level                   Level
                                                               Tng         Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5     7    Start      Comp       Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      5      7     Course
A2.16.1.5. Thread
A2.16.1.5.1. Systems                                                                                                     A         B      -        -

A2.16.1.5.2. Cut internal                          *                                                                     2b        b      -        -

A2.16.1.5.3. Cut external                          *                                                                     2b        b      -        -

A2.16.1.5.4. Use Geometric die                                                                                           2b        b      -        -

A2.16.1.6. File                                                                                                           b        b      -        -

A2.16.1.7. Polish                                                                                                         -        b      -        -

A2.16.1.8. Parting                                 *                                                                     2b        b      -        -

A2.16.1.9. Grind With Tool Post Grinder                                                                                   -        b      -        -

A2.16.1.10. Maintain                                                                                                     2b        b      -        -
A2.16.2. Computer Numerical Controlled (CNC)
equipment TR: Machinery’s Handbook, Operator’s
Manual


A2.16.2.1. Operate                                                                                                        -        b      -        -

A2.16.2.2. Program                                                                                                        -        b      -        -

A2.16.2.3. Maintain                                                                                                       -        b      -        -

A2.17. MILL TR: Machinery’s Handbook, Operator’s
Manual, TO 34-1-10

A2.17.1. Manual Equipment
A2.17.1.1. Squaring and stepping                   *                                                                     2b        b      -        -

A2.17.1.2. Slotting                                                                                                      2b        b      -        -

A2.17.1.3. Pocket milling                          *                                                                     2b        b      -        -

A2.17.1.4. Keyseat milling                                                                                                -        b      -        -

A2.17.1.5. Fly cutting                                                                                                    b        b      -        -
                                                   *
A2.17.1.6. Angle milling                           *                                                                     2b        b      -        -

A2.17.1.7. Form Milling                                                                                                   -        b      -        -




                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                                     31
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                   2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A             B         C
                                                                                                                      3-Skill        CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level                   Level
                                                              Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                    5     7   Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials    Course      5      7     Course
A2.17.1.11. Use milling attachments
A2.17.1.11.1. Offset boring head                   *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.17.1.11.2. Indexing head                        *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.17.1.11.3. Rotary table                                                                                               a        b      -        -

A2.17.1.11.4. Toolmaker’s knee                                                                                           -        b      -        -

A2.17.1.12. Maintain Equipment                                                                                          2b        b      -        -
A2.17.2. Computer Numerical Controlled (CNC)
Equipment TR: Machinery’s Handbook, Operator’s
Manual

A2.17.2.1. Operate                                 *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.17.2.2. Program                                       *                                                               -        b      -        -

A2.17.2.3. Maintain                                                                                                      -        b      -        -

A2.18. CONTOUR SAW
TR: Operator’s Manual

A2.18.1. Operate                                   *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.18.2. Maintain                                                                                                        -        b      -        -

A2.19. HORIZONTAL BANDSAW
TR: Operator’s Manual

A2.19.1. Operate                                   *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.19.2. Maintain                                                                                                       2b        b      -        -

A2.20. ABRASIVE CUTOFF SAW
TR: Operator’s Manual

A2.20.1. Operate                                                                                                         -        b      -        -

A2.20.2. Maintain                                                                                                        -        b      -        -

A2.21. WATER/ABRASIVE JET TR: Operator’s
Manual
A2.21.1. Operate                                          *                                                              -        a      -        -

A2.21.2. Maintain                                         *                                                              -        a      -        -

A2.22. GRINDER TR: Machinery’s Handbook,
Operator’s Manual, TO 34-1-10




                                                                                                                       Attachment 2
                                                                   32
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                   2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A             B         C
                                                                                                                      3-Skill        CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level                   Level
                                                    5     7   Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course      5      7     Course
                                                              Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A2.22.1. Grinding Wheels
A2.22.1.1. Identify                                                                                                      -        b      -        -

A2.22.1.2. Inspect                                 *                                                                    1a        b      -        -

A2.22.1.3. Maintain                                                                                                     1a        b      -        -

A2.22.2. Pedestal/Bench Grinders
A2.22.2.1. Operate                                 *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.22.2.2. Maintain                                                                                                     2b        b      -        -

A2.22.3. Tool And Cutter Grinders
A2.22.3.1. Operate                                                                                                       -        -      -        -

A2.22.3.2. Maintain                                                                                                      -        -      -        -

A2.22.4. Surface Grinders
A2.22.4.1. Operate                                                                                                       -        -      -        -

A2.22.4.2. Maintain                                                                                                      -        -      -        -

A2.23. ABRASIVE SANDING MACHINE
A2.23.1. Operate                                                                                                        2b        b      -        -

A2.23.2. Maintain                                                                                                       2b        b      -        -

A2.24. UNIVERSAL PUNCHING AND
SHEARING MACHINE
TR: Operator’s Manual

A2.24.1. Operate                                   *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.24.2. Maintain                                                                                                        -        b      -        -

A2.25. POWER SHEAR
TR: Operator’s Manual
A2.25.1. Operate                                                                                                         -        -      -        -

A2.25.2. Maintain                                                                                                        -        -      -        -




                                                                                                                       Attachment 2
                                                                   33
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                   2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A            B          C
                                                                                                                      3-Skill       CDC        7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level                   Level
                                                    5     7   Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course      5      7     Course
                                                              Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A2.26 OXYACETYLENE OPERATIONS TR:
Operator’s Manual, TOs 00-25252 and 42B5-1-2


A2.26.1. Weld Ferrous Metal
A2.26.1.1. Groove welds in position
A2.26.1.1.1. Flat                                                                                                       2b        -      -        -

A2.26.1.1.2. Horizontal                                                                                                  -        -      -        -

A2.26.1.1.3. Vertical                                                                                                    -        -      -        -

A2.26.1.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.26.1.2.1. Flat                                                                                                        -        -      -        -

A2.26.1.2.2. Horizontal                                                                                                  -        -      -        -

A2.26.1.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                    -        -      -        -

A2.26.2. Soft Solder
A2.26.2.1. Ferrous metals                                                                                                -        -      -        -

A2.26.2.2. Nonferrous metals                                                                                             -        -      -        -

A2.26.3. Silver Solder
A2.26.3.1. Ferrous metals                          *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.26.3.2. Nonferrous metals                       *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.26.4. Braze
A2.26.4.1. Ferrous metals                                                                                                -        -      -        -

A2.26.4.2. Nonferrous metals                                                                                             -        -      -        -

A2.26.4.3. Castings                                                                                                      -        -      -        -

A2.26.5. Cut                                       *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.26.6. Forge                                                                                                           -        b      -        -

A2.26.7. Torch heat treat                                                                                                b        b      -        -

A2.26.8. Equipment
A2.26.8.1. Assemble                                                                                                     2b        b      -        -
                                                    *
A2.26.8.2. Disassemble                                                                                                  2b        b      -        -
                                                    *
A2.26.8.3. Maintain                                                                                                     2b        b      -        -




                                                                                                                       Attachment 2
                                                                   34
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                   2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A             B         C
                                                                                                                      3-Skill        CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level                   Level
                                                    5     7   Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course      5      7     Course
                                                              Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A2.27. SHIELDED METAL ARC WELDING TR:
Operator’s Manual, TO 34w4-1-5
A2.27.1. Fundamentals                                                                                                    -       A       -        -
A2.27.1. Weld Ferrous Metal
A2.27.1.1. Groove welds in position
A2.27.1.1.1. Flat                                                                                                        -        -      -        -

A2.27.1.1.2. Horizontal                                                                                                  -        -      -        -

A2.27.1.1.3. Vertical                                                                                                    -        -      -        -

A2.27.1.1.4. Overhead                                                                                                    -        -      -        -

A2.27.1.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.27.1.2.1. Flat                                                                                                        -        -      -        -

A2.27.1.2.2. Horizontal                                                                                                  -        -      -        -

A2.27.1.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                    -        -      -        -

A2.27.1.2.4. Overhead                                                                                                    -        -      -        -

A2.27.2. Maintain Equipment                                                                                              -        -      -        -

A2.28. GAS METAL ARC WELDING TR:
Operator’s Manual, TO 00-25-252 and 42B5-1-2

A2.28.1. Weld Ferrous Metals
A2.28.1.1. Groove welds in position
A2.28.1.1.1. Flat                                                                                                       2b        b      -        -

A2.28.1.1.2. Horizontal                            *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.28.1.1.3. Vertical                                                                                                    -        b      -        -

A2.28.1.1.4. Overhead                                                                                                    -        -      -        -

A2.28.1.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.28.1.2.1. Flat                                                                                                        -        b      -        -

A2.28.1.2.2. Horizontal                            *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.28.1.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                    -        -      -        -

A2.28.1.2.4. Overhead                                                                                                    -        -      -        -

A2.28.2. Weld Nonferrous Metal
A2.28.2.1. Groove welds in position




                                                                                                                       Attachment 2
                                                                   35
                                                SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                                CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                    2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                       Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A             B           C
                                                                                                                       3-Skill        CDC         7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level                     Level
                                                     5     7   Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course      5       7      Course
                                                               Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A2.28.2.1.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b       -         -

A2.28.2.1.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        -       -         -

A2.28.2.1.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        -       -         -

A2.28.2.1.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        -       -         -

A2.28.2.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.28.2.2.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b       -         -

A2.28.2.2.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        -       -         -

A2.28.2.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        -       -         -

A2.28.2.2.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        -       -         -

A2.28.3. Maintain Equipment                                                                                              2b        b       -         -

A2.29. GAS TUNGSTEN ARC WELDING TR:
AMS-STD-1595, Operator’s Manual, TOs 00-25-252
and 42B5-1-2
A2.29.1. Weld Group I (steel)
A2.29.1.1. Groove welds in position
A2.29.1.1.1. Flat                                   *                                                                    2b        b       -         -

A2.29.1.1.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b       -         -

A2.29.1.1.3. Vertical                                                                                                    2b        b       -         -

A2.29.1.1.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b       -         -

A2.29.1.1.5. Inclined fixed tube to tube (6G)       *                                                                     -        b       -         -

A2.29.1.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.29.1.2.1. Flat                                   *                                                                     -        b       -         -

A2.29.1.2.2. Horizontal                                                                                                  2b        b       -         -

A2.29.1.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b       -         -

A2.29.1.2.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b       -         -

A2.29.2. Weld Group II (Stainless Steel)
A2.29.2.1. Groove welds in position
A2.29.2.1.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b       -         -

A2.29.2.1.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b       -         -

A2.29.2.1.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b       -         -




                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                                    36
                                                SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                                CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                    2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                       Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A             B         C
                                                                                                                       3-Skill        CDC       7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level                   Level
                                                     5     7   Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course      5      7     Course
                                                               Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A2.29.2.1.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.2.1.5. Inclined fixed tube to tube (6G)                                                                             -        b      -        -

A2.29.2.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.29.2.2.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b      -        -

A2.29.2.2.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b      -        -

A2.29.2.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.2.2.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.3. Weld Group III (Nickel)
A2.29.3.1. Groove welds in position
A2.29.3.1.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b      -        -

A2.29.3.1.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b      -        -

A2.29.3.1.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.3.1.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.3.1.5. Inclined fixed tube to tube (6G)                                                                             -        b      -        -

A2.29.3.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.29.3.2.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b      -        -

A2.29.3.2.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b      -        -

A2.29.3.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.3.2.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.4. Weld Group IV (aluminum)
A2.29.4.1. Groove welds in position
A2.29.4.1.1. Flat                                                                                                        2b        b      -        -

A2.29.4.1.2. Horizontal                             *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.4.1.3. Vertical                               *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.29.4.1.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.4.1.5. Inclined fixed tube to tube (6G)       *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.4.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.29.4.2.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b      -        -




                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                                    37
                                                SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                                CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                    2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                       Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A            B          C
                                                                                                                       3-Skill       CDC        7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level                   Level
                                                     5     7   Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course      5      7     Course
                                                               Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A2.29.4.2.2. Horizontal                             *                                                                    2b        b      -        -

A2.29.4.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.4.2.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.5. Weld Group V (magnesium)
A2.29.5.1. Groove welds in position
A2.29.5.1.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b      -        -

A2.29.5.1.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b      -        -

A2.29.5.1.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.5.1.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.5.1.5. Inclined fixed tube to tube (6G)                                                                             -        b      -        -

A2.29.5.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.29.5.2.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b      -        -

A2.29.5.2.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b      -        -

A2.29.5.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.5.2.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.6. Weld Group VI (titanium)
A2.29.6.1. Groove welds in position
A2.29.6.1.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b      -        -

A2.29.6.1.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b      -        -

A2.29.6.1.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.6.1.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.6.1.5. Inclined fixed tube to tube (6G)       *                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.6.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.29.6.2.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b      -        -

A2.29.6.2.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b      -        -

A2.29.6.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b      -        -

A2.29.6.2.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b      -        -




                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                                    38
                                                SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                                CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                    2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                       Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                          Training/Information
                                                                                                                          Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A            B          C
                                                                                                                       3-Skill       CDC        7 Skill
                                                                                                                        Level                   Level
                                                     5     7   Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course      5         7   Course
                                                               Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials
A2.29.7. Weld Group VII (cobalt)
A2.29.7.1. Groove welds in position
A2.29.7.1.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b         -     -

A2.29.7.1.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b         -     -

A2.29.7.1.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b         -     -

A2.29.7.1.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b         -     -

A2.29.7.1.5. Inclined fixed tube to tube (6G)                                                                             -        b         -     -

A2.29.7.2. Fillet welds in position
A2.29.7.2.1. Flat                                                                                                         -        b         -     -

A2.29.7.2.2. Horizontal                                                                                                   -        b         -     -

A2.29.7.2.3. Vertical                                                                                                     -        b         -     -

A2.29.7.2.4. Overhead                                                                                                     -        b         -     -

A2.29.8. Maintain Equipment                                                                                              2b        b         -     -
                                                                                                                          -        b         -     -
A2.30. VISUALLY INSPECT WELDS TR: TO 00-
25-252                                                     *
A2.31. PLASMA ARC OPERATIONS
TR: Operator’s Manual

A2.31.2. Cut                                        *                                                                     -        b         -     -

A2.31.3. Maintain Equipment                                                                                               -        a         -     -

A2.32. RESISTANCE WELDER
TR: Operator’s Manual

A2.32.1. Operate                                                                                                          -        -         -     -

A2.32.2. Maintain                                                                                                         -        -         -     -

A2.33. PORTABLE WELDING MACHINE
TR: Operator’s Manual

A2.33.1. Operate                                                                                                          -        b     -         -

A2.33.2. Maintain                                                                                                         -        -     -         -

A2.33.3 Static Ground Machine                                                                                             -        -     -         -




                                                                                                                        Attachment 2
                                                                    39
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
                                                   2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes
                                                      Tasks                                                              Used to Indicate
                                                                                                                         Training/Information
                                                                                                                         Provided (See Atch 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A      B    A           B           C          D          E           A             B           C
                                                                                                                      3-Skill        CDC         7 Skill
                                                                                                                       Level                     Level
                                                    5     7   Tng        Tng        Trainee    Trainer    Certifier   Course      5       7      Course
                                                              Start     Comp        Initials   Initials   Initials

A2.34. REPAIRS TR: Weapon System TOs, 00-25-
252,44B Series TOs, Machinery’s Handbook,

A2.34.1. Aircraft
A2.34.1.1. Engine parts
A2.34.1.1.1. Clean                                                                                                       -        b       -         -

A2.34.1.1.2. Repair                                                                                                      -        b       -         -

A2.34.1.1.3. Inspect                                      *                                                              -        b       -         -

A2.34.1.2. Structural
A2.34.1.2.1. Clean                                 *                                                                     -        b       -         -

A2.34.1.2.2. Repair                                *                                                                     -        b       -         -

A2.34.1.2.3. Inspect                                      *                                                              -        b       -         -

A2.34.2. Support Equipment
A2.34.2.1. Clean                                   *                                                                     -        b       -         -

A2.34.2.2. Repair                                  *                                                                     -        b       -         -

A2.34.2.3. Inspect                                        *                                                              -        b       -         -




                                                                                                                       Attachment 2
                                                                   40
   SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

                             CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013




THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                                         Attachment 2
                41
                                                           2AX7X CDC
                                                                                             CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
`1. Tasks                                                                                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                 A          B           C
                                                                                                               3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                                   (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                                   Crse          CDC         Crse      CDC

NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDCs.

AA.1.          MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
AA.1.1.        Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
              TR: AFI 21-101 and Repair Enterprise 21 Fact Sheet                                                                                        A
               (https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrowser.aspx?id=32781
AA.1.2.        Maintenance Concept
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.3.        Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54.
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.4.        Operating Instructions (OI)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.5.        Support Agreements (SA)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 25-201
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.6.        Modification and Configuration Management
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.7.        Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, AFCSM 21-556 volume 2, and TO 00-20-2
                                                                                                                                                        B
AA.1.8.        Maintenance Performance Indicator Metrics and Health of the Fleet
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
                                                                                                                                                        B
AA.1.9.        Personnel Utilization
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.10.       Maintenance Repair Priorities
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.11.       Minimum Essential System Listing (MESL)
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.12.       Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), and AEF Reporting Tool (ART)
              TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244 and https://aefcenter.afpc.randolph.af.mil/
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.13.       Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
              TR: AFI 21-101 and T.O. 00-20-1
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.1.14.       Maintenance Scheduling Effectiveness
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A

AA.2.          MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.2.1.       Wing Commander (WG/CC)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.2.       Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.3.       Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.4.       Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.5.       MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A
AA.2.6.       Squadron Commander (SQ/CC) Responsibilities
              TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                        A


                                                                                                                    Attachment 2
                                                                   43
                                                       2AX7X CDC
                                                                                       CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
`1. Tasks                                                                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                  Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                   A          B           C
                                                                                                 3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                     (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                     Crse          CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.2.7.      Operations Officer and Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT) Responsibilities
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.2.8.      Flight Commander/Flight Chief
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.2.9.      AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.2.10.     Section NCOIC
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.2.11.     Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.2.12.     Expediter
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          B
AA.3.        FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.3.1.      Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.3.2.      Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.3.3.      Programs and Resources Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.3.4.      Quality Assurance (QA) Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.4.        FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
             (AMXS/HMXS) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.4.1.      Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.4.2.      Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.4.3.      Aircraft Section
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.4.4.      Specialist Section
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.4.5.      Weapons Section
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.4.6.      Plans, Scheduling and Documentation Section (PS&D)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.4.7.      Support Section
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.5.        FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.5.1.      Accessories Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.5.2.      Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.5.3.      Armament Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.5.4.      Avionics Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.5.5.      Fabrication Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.5.6.      Maintenance Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                          A
AA.5.7.      Munitions Flight
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-201
                                                                                                                                          A


                                                                                                      Attachment 2
                                                              44
                                                           2AX7X CDC
                                                                                            CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
`1. Tasks                                                                                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                          Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                          Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                           A          B           C
                                                                                                         3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                             (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                             Crse          CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.5.8.        Propulsion Flight
               TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                  A
AA.5.9.        Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
               TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                  A
AA.6.          AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.6.1.        Air Logistics Centers (ALC)
               TR: AFMCMD (Mission Directives) 406, 407 and 410.
                Located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm ,
                OO-ALC Brochure located at: http://www.hill.af.mil/main/index.html ,
                                                                                                                                                  A
                WR-ALC: http://www.robins.af.mil/units/402mw.asp and
                OC-ALC: http://www.tinker.af.mil/units/
AA.6.2.        Air Force Flight Test Center/Air Armament Center
               TR: AFMCMD 404 located at https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm
                and Flight Test Center Fact Sheet locate at:
                                                                                                                                                  A
               http://www.edwards.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet_print.asp?fsID=6573&page=1
AA.6.3.        Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center (AMARC)
               TR: AFMCMD 415 located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm and                                                   A
               http://www.dm.af.mil/units/amarc.asp
AA.7.          MAINTENANCE TRAINING
AA.7.1         Types of Training
              TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
                                                                                                                                                  A
AA.7.2.        Training Documentation
              TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AFI 36-2201
                                                                                                                                                  A
AA.7.3.        Special Certification Rosters
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                  A
AA.7.4.        Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
              TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AFPD 10-9.
                                                                                                                                                  A
AA.7.5.        Training Forecast / Request
              TR: AFI 36-2232 and AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                  A
AA.7.6.        Training Development Process
              TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AETCI 36-2601
                                                                                                                                                  A
AA.8.          PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AA.8.1.        Capability Based Manpower Standard and Logistics Composite Model (LCOM)
                                                                                                                                                  A
                TR: AFMAN 38-208 Volume 3, AFI 38-201, AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.8.2.        Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                                                                  A
               TR: AFI 38-201, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFI 36-2110
AA.9.         MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
AA.9.1.       Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 (vol. 1) and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.9.2.       Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.9.3.       Consumables Management
                                                                                                                                                  A
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.4.        Equipment Items
                                                                                                                                                  A
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFMAN 23-220
AA.9.5.       Special Purpose Recoverable Authorized Maintenance (SPRAM) Assets
                                                                                                                                                  A
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFI 21-103
AA.9.6.       Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight Programming
                                                                                                                                                  A
               TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.7.       Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                                                  A
               TR: AFMAN 23-110 and AFI 21-101


                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                                                   45
                                                       2AX7X CDC
                                                                                     CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
`1. Tasks                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                     Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                      A          B           C
                                                                                                    3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                        (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                        Crse          CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.9.8.     Supply Points
                                                                                                                                             A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.9.     Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                                             A
             TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.10.     Repair Cycle Assets / Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                                             A
             TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
AA.9.11.     Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                                             A
             TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.12.     Maintenance Repair / Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                                                             A
             TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.13.     Classified Assets
                                                                                                                                             A
             TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
AA.9.14.     Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                             A
             TR: AFI 90-821, AFI 32-7086 and AFI 21-101
AA.9.15.      Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
             TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                             B
AA.10.       TECHNICAL ORDER POLICY
             TR: TO 00-5-1, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-303
AA.10.1.     Use of Technical Orders (TO), TO Supplements and Publications
             TR: AFI 21-101, 21-303 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.10.2.     Technical Order Change Process
             TR: AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.10.3.     Technical Order Waivers
             TR: AFI 21-303 and AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.        MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
AA.11.1.    Cannibalization Program
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.2.    Restricted Maintenance Areas
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.3.    Red Ball Maintenance
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.4.    Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.5.   Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP) Purpose and Inspection Types
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                             B
AA.11.6.    Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.7.   Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.8.   Tool Management
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.9.    Tool Accountability
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.9.1.  Marking and Tool Identification
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.9.2.  Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.9.3.  Lost Item/Tool Procedures
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.10.   Maintenance Recovery Team
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                             A
AA.11.11.    Aging Aircraft / Equipment Issues
            TR: AFI 21-101, DoD 5010.12-M and DMSMS Guide Book (SD-22)
                                                                                                                                             A


                                                                                                         Attachment 2
                                                              46
                                                         2AX7X CDC
                                                                                         CFETP 2A7X1, 1 MAY 2013
`1. Tasks                                                                                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                           Provided
Knowledge And Technical References                                                                            A          B           C
                                                                                                          3-Skill Level 5-Skill Level    7-Skill Level
                                                                                                              (1)           (1)         (1)        (2)
                                                                                                              Crse          CDC         Crse      CDC

AA.11.12.    Quality Assurance Evaluators
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                                                   A
AA.11.13.    Computer Applications
             TR: AF Portal, AF E-Publishing site, AF IT E-Learning site, Advanced Distributed Learning
             Services (ADLS) site, AF Center of Excellence for Knowledge Management (AFKM) site,                                                   A
             Defense Travel System (DTS) training site, Air & Space Expeditionary Force Center site and
             the AF Center for Electronic Distribution of Systems (AFCEDS) site
AA.11.14.    Mobility
             TR: AFTTP 3-21.1, AFI 10-403, AFI 21-101, and the AFMAN 10-100 (Airman’s Manual)
                                                                                                                                                   A
AA.11.15.    Crashed Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                   A




                                                                                                               Attachment 2
                                                                47
