DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                             CFETP 1B4X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                 Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                            01 November 2014



                              AFSC 1B4X1

           CYBER WARFARE OPERATIONS




               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                 AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                           CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                  CYBER WARFARE OPERATIONS
                                          AFSC 1B4X1
                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I
Preface..............................................................................................................................................4
Abbreviations/Terms Explained ......................................................................................................5
Section A - General Information....................................................................................................11
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information ..................................................................13
Specialty Description
Skill/Career Progression
      Cyber Warfare Operations Apprentice (1B431)
      Cyber Warfare Operations Journeyman (1B451)
      Cyber Warfare Operations Craftsman (1B471)
      Cyber Warfare Operations Superintendent (1B491)
      1B4X1 Career Path Chart
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
Career Field Path
      1B4X1 Cyber Warfare Operations Career Path Table
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements .............................................................................19
Purpose
Specialty Qualification Requirements
      Apprentice (3-Level) Training
     Journeyman (5-Level) Training
     Craftsman (7-Level) Training
     Superintendent (9-Level) Training
Section D - Resource Constraints ..................................................................................................22
Purpose
Apprentice (3-Level) Training
Journeyman (5-Level) Training
Craftsman (7-Level) Training
Superintendent (9-Level) Training
Section E - Transition Training Guide ...........................................................................................22




                                                                          2
Part II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard .......................................................................................23
Section B - Course Objective List .................................................................................................49
Section C - Support Materials ........................................................................................................49
Air Force Job Qualification Standards and Air Force Qualification Training Packages
Section D - Training Course Index ................................................................................................49
Purpose
Air Force In-Residence Courses
Air University Courses
Exportable Courses
Section E - MAJCOM-Unique Requirements ...............................................................................50




OPR: 333 TRS/TRR
Approved By: CMSgt John H. Sanders AFCFM (SAF/CIO A6SF)
Supersedes: CFETP 1B4X1, dated 01 March 2013 W/Chg 1 dated 01 August 2014
Pages: 50



                                                                   3
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                               CYBER WARFARE OPERATIONS
                                      AFSC 1B4X1
PART I
Preface
1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.
2. The CFETP documents the career field training program and consists of two parts.
Management uses both parts in conjunction with Training Business Area (TBA) to plan, manage
and control training within the career field. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions
will use Part II to support duty position qualification training.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies and career field path; Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training
and other); Section D indicates resource constraints (e.g., funds, manpower, equipment,
facilities); and Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS)
and includes duties, tasks, Training References (TRs) to support training, AETC-conducted
training, wartime course and core task and correspondence course requirements. Section B
contains the Course Objectives List (COL) and training standards supervisors will use to
determine if Airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C identifies available support
materials (e.g., Qualification Training Package, which may be developed to support proficiency
training). Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine resources
available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses; and
Section E identifies MAJCOM-unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine
additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and
trainers will use Part II to identify, plan and conduct training commensurate with the overall
goals of this plan.
3. Use of the guidance provided in this CFETP provides the foundation for effective and
efficient training for individuals in this career field at the appropriate points in their careers. This
plan enables the Air Force to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs.




                                                   4
Abbreviations/Terms Explained
This section provides a common understanding of the terms that apply to the Cyber Warfare
Operations CFETP.
Advanced Training (AT). A formal course of training that leads to a technical or supervisory
level of an Air Force Specialty (AFS). Training is for selected Airmen at the advanced level of
an AFS.
Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF). The AEF is the Air Force’s methodology for
organizing, training, equipping, and sustaining rapidly responsive air and space forces to meet
defense strategy requirements. Through the AEF, consisting of enabler and tempo banded
capabilities the Air Force supports defense strategy requirements using a combination of both
permanently assigned and rotational (allocated) forces.
Air Education Training Command (AETC). Responsible for the recruiting, training and
education of Air Force personnel. AETC also provides pre-commissioning, professional military
and continuing education.
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Representative appointed by the respective HQ
USAF Deputy Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat to ensure that assigned Air Force specialties
are trained and utilized to support Air Force mission requirements.
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). The official directory for all military
enlisted classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. Establishes the occupational structure
of the Air Force enlisted force. The occupational structure is flexible to permit enlisted
personnel to specialize and develop their skills and abilities while allowing the Air Force to meet
changing mission requirements. Individual enlisted personnel have a joint responsibility with
commanders and supervisors at all levels to fully develop their abilities consistent with Air Force
needs and within the established patterns of specialization.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualification.
The tasks on AFJQSs are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.
Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional course designed for
use at the unit to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of
equipment. It may be printed, computer-based, or other audiovisual media.
Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require
common qualifications.
Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP). AFTTPs describe the proper
employment of specific Air Force assets, individually or in concert with other assets, to
accomplish detailed objectives.
Air University Associate-to-Baccalaureate Cooperative (AU ABC). Allows Airmen to turn a
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree into a Bachelor’s Degree from an
accredited university. The ABC program has established a partnership with various civilian
higher-education institutions to offer four-year degree opportunities via distance learning. The
participating schools will accept all of the credits earned by Airmen who have attained a CCAF
degree and apply them to a Bachelor’s degree related to their Air Force specialty.
Air University/AFCDA (Air Force Career Development Academy). The result of a
reorganization of Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL); provides
access to the Extension Course Institute.



                                                 5
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support
resources; and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training. CFETPs are
officially posted at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM). Chief Master Sergeants that have extensive experience and
training, and demonstrated managerial ability to plan, direct, coordinate, implement, and control
a wide range of work activity. Some managerial duties and responsibilities that are common to
all chief enlisted managers are: managing and directing personnel resource activities; interpreting
and enforcing policy and applicable directives; establishing control procedures to meet work
goals and standards; recommending or initiating actions to improve functional operation
efficiency; planning and programming work commitments and schedules; developing plans
regarding facilities, supplies, and equipment procurement and maintenance.
Command Line Interface (CLI). A command-line interface (CLI) is a means of interaction
with a computer program where the user (or client) issues commands to the program in the form
of successive lines of text (command lines).
Computer Based Training (CBT). A forum for training in which the student learns via a
computer terminal. It is an especially effective training tool that allows the students to practice
applications while they learn.
Continuation Training. Additional advanced training that exceeds the minimum upgrade
training requirements and emphasizes present or future duty assignments.
Core Task. A task AFCFMs identify as a minimum qualification requirement for everyone
within an AFSC regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill
level or in general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable
CFETP narrative.
Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial/advanced skills Course
Training Standard (CTS), identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements and respective
standards provided to achieve a 3-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to
assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
Program.
Course Training Standard (CTS). A standard developed for all courses not governed by an
STS, including specialized training packages and computer-based training courses.
Critical Tasks. Critical Tasks are tasks that require specific training and certification above and
beyond other tasks. Tasks may be defined as critical either through AFI, Technical Orders,
higher headquarters, or at any level in the unit.
Cross-Utilization Training. Training on non-duty AFSC specific tasks.
Defensive Cyberspace Operations (DCO). Passive and active cyberspace operations intended
to preserve the ability to utilize friendly cyberspace capabilities and protect data, networks, net-
centric capabilities, and other designated systems (JP 1-02).
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU). Air Force subdivisions directly subordinate to the CSAF. A
DRU performs a mission that does not fit into any of the MAJCOMs. A DRU has many of the
same administrative and organizational responsibilities as a MAJCOM (Example of a DRU:
USAF Academy).

                                                  6
DoD Directive 8570.01 (Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce
Management). Provides guidance and procedures for the training, certification, and
management of the DoD workforce conducting Information Assurance (IA) functions in
assigned duty positions.
Duty Position Tasks. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These
include, as a minimum, all core tasks that correspond to the duty position as directed by the
AFCFM or MFM, and tasks assigned by the supervisor.
Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). Located at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil, the ETCA contains specific MAJCOM procedures, fund cite
instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for those formal courses the MAJCOMs or FOAs
conduct or manage. The ETCA contains courses the Air Force and reserve forces conduct or
administer and serves as a reference for the Air Force, DoD, other military services, government
agencies, and security assistance programs.
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.
Expeditionary Aerospace Force (EAF). The EAF concept is how the Air Force will organize,
train, equip, and sustain itself by creating a mindset and cultural state that embraces the unique
characteristics of aerospace power - range, speed, flexibility, precision - to meet the national
security challenges of the 21st Century.
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.
Field Operating Agency (FOA). FOAs are subdivisions of the Air Force directly subordinate
to a headquarters US Air Force functional manager. An FOA performs field activities beyond
the scope of any of the MAJCOMs. The activities are specialized or associated with an Air
Force-wide mission (Example of a FOA: is the Air Force Weather Agency).
Field Training. Technical, operator, and other training that either a field training detachment or
field training team conducts at operational locations on specific systems and associated direct-
support equipment for maintenance and aircrew personnel.
Functional Area Manager (FAM). The individual accountable for the management and
oversight of all personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support the
operational planning and execution. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing
and reviewing policy; developing, managing, and maintaining Unit Type Codes (UTC);
developing criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force posturing; and analysis. At
each level of responsibility (Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM, Air Component, FOA, DRU,
and Unit), the FAM should be the most highly knowledgeable and experienced person within the
functional area and have the widest range of visibility over the functional area readiness and
capability issues.
Functional Manager. An individual assigned collateral responsibility for training,
classification, utilization, and career development of enlisted personnel. AFSC Functional
Managers exist at MAJCOM, NAF and base level. (AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and
Responsibilities)
Go/No-Go. The “Go” is the stage at which a trainee has gained enough skill, knowledge, and
experience to perform the tasks without supervision, meeting the task standard. “No-Go” is the
stage at which the trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform
task without supervision, does not meet task standard.


                                                 7
Individual Training Plan (ITP). Using AF Form 623, On-the-Job Training Record in
conjunction with TBA. The AF Form 623 reflects past and current qualifications, and is used to
determine training requirements. It is intended to be a complete history of past training and
current qualifications. Supervisors will ensure all documentation is accurate and comprehensive.
Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for
enlisted or mandatory upgrade training to qualified officers. (AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
Program)
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly (but flexible) process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost efficient way to become educated on the knowledge, skills, and abilities
essential for successful job performance.
Major Command (MAJCOM). A MAJCOM represents a major Air Force subdivision having
a specific portion of the Air Force mission. Each MAJCOM is directly subordinate to HQ
USAF. MAJCOMs are interrelated and complementary, providing offensive, defensive, and
support elements.
Master Task Listing (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a
work center and consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms
797 (as a minimum). Should include tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.
Master Training Plan (MTP). Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work
center job requirements by using a MTL and provides milestones for task, CDC completion, and
prioritizes deployment/UTC, home station training tasks, upgrade, and qualification tasks.
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFSC.
Offensive Cyberspace Operations (OCO). Operations intended to project power by
application of force in and through cyberspace (JP 1-02).
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position) training.
Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade.
Qualification Training. Hands-on, task performance based training designed to qualify Airmen
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process and is designed to provide skills training required to do the job.
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies (such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment) that preclude desired training from being delivered.
Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT). A meeting chaired by the AFCFM with
MAJCOM FMs, AETC Training Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SME), and HQ AETC
Occupational Analysis Division (OAD) in attendance. Typically held in conjunction with a
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) to finalize any CFETP changes or enlisted
classification directory descriptions.




                                                 8
Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge that an Airman in that specialty may be expected to
perform or to know on the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-
skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and the
functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty
Code (AFSC) are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. It is a fixed
quantity or quality.
System Training Plan (STP). A living document that explains what training is needed for a
system and how to obtain the training.
Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed together within an AFS that require common
knowledge, skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification code and a statement.
Total Force. All collective components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the
United States Air Force.
Training Advisory Group (TAG). Chaired by the AFCFM and attended by the MAJCOM,
selected DRU and FOA functional managers. The TAG sets training goals and priorities,
reviews training programs and evaluates emerging training technologies. The group meets, as
required, to prioritize training product development.
Training Business Area (TBA). A web-based training application that provides Air Force
warfighters with global, real-time visibility into qualifications, certifications and training status
of communications professionals. TBA supports base, wing and work center training
management activities by automating business processes and capabilities to eliminate paper-
based practices. The system centralizes management of training task data, provides user access
to CFETPs/JQSs and increases security through a single AF Portal log on.
Training Capability. The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider the
availability of equipment, qualified trainers, and study reference materials, and so on in
determining a unit's training capability.
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, TPTs are
more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues examined is greater
than in the U&TW forum.
Training Requirements Analysis (TRA). A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFSC to
be included in the training decision process.
Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).
Unit Type Code (UTC). A five-character alphanumeric code identifying a specific force
package of personnel and/or equipment. The UTC is the means for linking logistics and
manpower details within a unit type and is used to communicate force data. The UTC represents
a wartime capability designed to fill a valid contingency requirement.
Upgrade Training. Training that leads to the award of a higher skill level.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional
Managers, subject matter experts (SME), and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements.


                                                  9
Wartime Tasks. Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime
environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3- level course
in a streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that still need
them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.




                                                10
Section A - General Information
1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for AFCFMs,
MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM), commanders, training managers, supervisors, trainers
and certifiers to plan, develop, manage and conduct an effective and efficient career field training
program. The plan outlines the initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency
training that individuals in AFSC 1B4X1 should receive in order to develop and progress
throughout their careers. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives
upon entry into the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This
training is provided by the 333th Training Squadron (TRS) at Keesler AFB, MS. Upgrade
training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, Career Development
Course (CDC) completion and correspondence courses required for award of the 5-, 7-, or 9-skill
level. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge
required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen.
Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some of which
are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, develop, manage, and conduct a career field training
program. Also, ensures that established training is provided at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends training throughout each phase of an individual's career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of the training, and
provides the training medium.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field
training program.
2. Use of the CFETP. The CFETP is maintained by the 1BXXX Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM), SAF/CIO A6SF. MAJCOM FMs and AETC review the plan annually to
ensure currency and accuracy and forward recommended changes to the AFCFM. Using the list
of courses in Part II, they determine whether duplicate training exists and take steps to
eliminate/prevent duplicate efforts. Career field training managers at all levels use the plan to
ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training program is available for each individual in the
career ladder.
2.1. AETC training personnel develop/revise formal resident and exportable training based upon
requirements established by the users and documented in the STS. They also develop
procurement and acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified
training.
2.2. MAJCOM FMs ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial
skill and upgrade requirements. They also identify the needed AFJQSs/AFQTPs to document
unique upgrade and continuation training requirements. Requirements are satisfied through OJT,
resident training, contract training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM developed
training to support this AFSC must be included into this plan.
2.3. 81 TRSS/TSQ Qualification Training Flight (Q-Flight) personnel develop training packages
(AFJQSs/AFQTPs) based on requests submitted by the MAJCOMs and according to the
priorities assigned by the AFCFM.
                                                  11
2.4. Unit training managers and supervisors manage and control progression through the career
field by ensuring individuals complete the mandatory training requirements for upgrade specified
in this plan and supplemented by their MAJCOM. The list of courses in Part II is used as a
reference for planning continuation or career enhancement training.
2.5. Submit recommended CFETP corrections to the 81 TRSS Q-Flight Customer Service Desk
at 81 TRSS/TSQS, 601 D Street, Keesler AFB MS 39534-2235 or call DSN 597-3343. To
contact electronically send email to: qflight.customer.service@us.af.mil.
2.6. Submit recommended CFETP additions/deletions through your MAJCOM Functional
Manager.
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel coordinate on the career field training
requirements. The AETC training manager initiates an annual review of this document by
AETC and MAJCOM functional managers to ensure the CFETP’s currency and accuracy by
using the list of courses in Part II to eliminate duplicate training.




                                              12
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description. Performs duties to develop, sustain, and enhance cyberspace
capabilities to defend national interests from attack and to create effects in cyberspace to achieve
national objectives. Conduct Offensive Cyberspace Operations (OCO) and Defensive
Cyberspace Operations (DCO) using established tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) to
achieve COCOM and national objectives. Executes command and control (C2) of assigned
cyberspace forces and de-conflict cyberspace operations across the kinetic and non-kinetic
spectrum. Supports cyberspace capability development, testing and implementation. Partners
with DoD, interagency and Coalition Forces to detect, deny, disrupt, deceive, and mitigate
adversarial access to sovereign national cyberspace systems. Related DoD Occupational
Subgroup: 153100

5. Skills and Career Progression.

5.1. Cyber Warfare Operations Apprentice (1B431). The apprentice skill level is awarded at
completion of the 1B4X1 Cyber Warfare Operations Initial Skills Course. Apprentices should be
assigned to tactical level units into positions such as incident response operator, interactive
operator or other entry level positions. Entry into the 1B451 CDC is mandatory.

5.2. Cyber Warfare Operations Journeyman (1B451). The journeyman skill level is awarded
upon completion of the 1B451 CDC, required core tasks and the required upgrade training time
period.

5.3. Cyber Warfare Operations Craftsman (1B471). The craftsman skill level is awarded
upon completion of the 1B471 CDC, required core tasks and the required upgrade training time
period. Minimum rank is SSgt (SrA with line number for SSgt will be entered into 7-skill level
upgrade training.).

5.4. Cyber Warfare Operations Superintendent (1B491). The superintendent skill level is
awarded upon, required core tasks and the required upgrade training time period. Minimum rank
is SMSgt (MSgt with line number for SMSgt will be entered into 9-skill level upgrade training.)




                                                 13
6. Training Decisions.

6.1. Three-Skill Level Course. The 3-skill level course has been overhauled in order to
continue the evolution of the Cyber Warfare Operations career field. The CFM and MAJCOM
Functional Managers concur on the course changes.

6.2. Five-Skill Level Upgrade Requirements. 5-level core task requirements as well as CDC
requirements have been adjusted to meet the needs of the operational community.

6.3. Seven-Skill Level Upgrade Requirements. The CFM and MAJCOM Functional
Managers approved the implementation of 7-level CDCs in order to better develop leaders within
the career field.

6.4. Nine-Skill Level Upgrade Requirements. Completion of the Cyberspace Superintendent
Course has been removed as a 9-level upgrade requirement. The Cyberspace Superintendent
Course will be made available to MSgts as warranted to support specific duty positions.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF
occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity for all
enlisted members to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. Refer to the AF Virtual
Education Center (accessible via the AF Portal, https://www.my.af.mil) for CCAF credits earned
for technical training courses attended. In order to be awarded a CCAF AAS degree, students
must complete the program before they separate from the Air Force, retire, or are commissioned
as an officer.

                                              14
7.1. The Cybersecurity (0CYC) program applies to the 1B4X1 career field.
7.1.1. Degree Requirements: Individuals must hold the 5-skill level at the time of program
completion.
                                                                                                                        Semester hours
Technical Education.......................................................................................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ..............................................................................6
Physical Education ...........................................................................................................................4
General Education ..........................................................................................................................15
Program Electives ..........................................................................................................................15
Total                                                                                                                                      64
7.3.2. Technical Education (24 semester hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of technical
core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours will be applied from
technical core/technical elective subjects and courses. Requests to substitute comparable courses
or to exceed specified semester hour values in any subject/course must be approved in advance
by the technical branch of the CCAF Administrative Center.
7.3.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (LMMS)(6 semester hours): Professional
military education (PME) and/or civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by
testing credit. See CCAF General Catalog for application of civilian management courses.
7.3.4. Physical Education (4 semester hours): Satisfied upon completion of basic military
training.
7.3.5. General Education (15 semester hours): Courses must meet the criteria for application of
courses to the General Education requirement and be in agreement with the definitions of
applicable General Education subjects/courses as outlined in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.3.6. General Education Mobile (GEM): GEM is a partnership between CCAF and civilian
academic institutions to offer general education courses to meet CCAF A.A.S. degree
requirements. Courses are offered via distance learning which reduces CCAF educational
impact of deployments, PCS and family commitments.
7.3.7 Program Elective (15 semester hours): Courses applying to technical education, LMMS or
general education requirements; natural science courses meeting general education requirement
application criteria; foreign language credit earned at Defense Language Institute or through the
Defense Language Proficiency Test; maximum 9 Semester Hours of CCAF degree-applicable
technical course credit otherwise not applicable to program of enrollment.
7.4. See the current CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied
Science in Cybersecurity. The catalog is available at your education office.
7.5. Additional off- duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor must possess as a minimum an associate degree or
should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special Duty Assignment (SDA) requires an
AETC instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or be within one year of completion (45
semester hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools.
8. Career Field Path. Table 8.1. identifies career milestones for the 1B4X1 Air Force
specialty.




                                                                     15
          Table 8.1. 1B4X1 CYBER WARFARE OPERATIONS CAREER PATH

                                                 GRADE REQUIREMENTS

                                                                                        High
Education and Training Requirements              Rank      Average       Earliest       Year Of
                                                           Sew-On        Sew-On         Tenure
                                                                                        (HYT)
Basic Military Training School (BMTS)

Apprentice Technical School                      A1C       16 months
(3-Skill Level)
Upgrade To Journeyman                            A1C       16 months
(5-Skill Level)
                                                 SrA       3 years       28 months      8 years
MANDATORY
- Minimum 9 months OJT training for
retrainees.
- Complete appropriate CDC.
- Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs for equipment at
assigned location by duty position. (see NOTE
2)

OPTIONAL

AETC Supplemental training courses as
determined by MAJCOM.

EPME Phase 1 - Airman Leadership School          Trainer

- Resident course.                               - Qualified and certified to perform the task to
                                                 be trained.
- 3-6 years time in service.
                                                 - Must attend formal AF Training Course.
* Refer to AFI 36-2301, Developmental
Education.                                       - Recommended by the supervisor.

Upgrade To Craftsman                             SSgt      5.5 years     3 years        15 years
(7-Skill Level)
MANDATORY
- Minimum rank of SSgt.

- 12 months OJT.

- 6 months OJT for retrainees.

                                                16
          Table 8.1. 1B4X1 CYBER WARFARE OPERATIONS CAREER PATH

                                                   GRADE REQUIREMENTS

                                                                                   High
Education and Training Requirements                Rank    Average      Earliest   Year Of
                                                           Sew-On       Sew-On     Tenure
                                                                                   (HYT)
- Complete appropriate CDC.
- Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs for equipment at
assigned location by duty position.

OPTIONAL
AETC Supplemental training courses as
determined by MAJCOM.
EPME Phase 2 – Non-Commisioned Officer             TSgt    11.4 years   5 years    20 years
Academy

- Distance learning 7-12 years time in service.

- Resident Intermediate Leadership Experience
8-12 years time in service.

* Refer to AFI 36-2301, Developmental
 Education.
EPME Phase 3 - USAF Senior NCO                     MSgt    17.5 years   8 years    24 years
Academy

- Distance learning 12-18 years time in
service.

- Resident Advanced Leadership Experience
 13-18 years time in service.

* Refer to AFI 36-2301, Developmental
 Education.

Upgrade To Superintendent                          SMSgt   21.8 years   11 years   26 Years
(9-Skill Level)

MANDATORY

- Minimum rank of SMSgt.




                                                  17
         Table 8.1. 1B4X1 CYBER WARFARE OPERATIONS CAREER PATH

                                              GRADE REQUIREMENTS

                                                                                  High
Education and Training Requirements           Rank     Average       Earliest     Year Of
                                                       Sew-On        Sew-On       Tenure
                                                                                  (HYT)
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                  CMSgt 22.9 years       14 years     30 years

NOTE 1: Published sew-on times are Air Force averages. Refer to the Air Force Personnel
Center’s homepage to determine career field specific information.
NOTE 2: See Part II, Sections C and D for a list of AFJQSs/AFQTPs and AETC supplemental
training.




                                            18
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements
9. Purpose. The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements for each skill level in the Cyber Warfare Operations field of the career
ladder. They are stated in broad, general terms and establish the standards of performance. Core
tasks, knowledge items, and skill requirements for this specialty are identified in the STS, COL,
CDCs, AFJQSs/AFQTPs, etc. Completion of the mandatory 3-level skill awarding course,
CDCs, CFETP, and applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs define the Air Force core tasks for this
specialty.
10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.
10.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE             Computer Operating Systems
                       Software Applications
                       Database Concepts
                       Common Programming Languages
                       Hardware Components
                       Networking Fundamentals
                       Protocols
                       Network Addressing
                       Network Infrastructure
                       Telecommunications Theory
                       Data Communications
                       Wireless Technologies
                       Cryptography
                       Cyber Operation Laws
 EDUCATION             For entry into this specialty, completion of high school is mandatory. Additional
                       courses in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) is desirable.
                       Associate degree or higher in related fields or Information Technology (IT)
                       Certification is desirable.
 TRAINING              Completion of the Cyber Warfare Operations Apprentice course
                       (See Part II, Section B for Course Objective List)
 EXPERIENCE            None required
 OTHER                 Minimum score of 60 on the Air Force Electronic Data Processing Test.
                       Requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment, completion of a
                       current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501,
                       Personnel Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and retention of
                       this skill level.
                       NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed SSBI is authorized provided
                       an interim Top Secret clearance has been granted according to AFI 31-501.
                       For award and retention of 1B431, must attain and maintain a minimum Information
                       Assurance Technical Level II certification according with AFMAN 33-285,
                       Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program.
 IMPLEMENTATION        Attendance at the Cyber Warfare Operations Apprentice course is mandatory for
                       award of the 3-skill level unless waived by the 1B AFCFM




                                                   19
10.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE           All 1B431 knowledge qualifications apply to the 1B451 requirements
 TRAINING            Completion of the 1B451 Career Development Course.
                     Completion of all STS core tasks.
                     Completion of applicable AFJQS/AFQTPs.
                     Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position to include Crew Position
                     Certification if required for duty position.
 EXPERIENCE          Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1B431
                     Experience performing Cyber Warfare Operations functions as outlined in Section B,
                     para. 4.
 OTHER               Requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment, completion of a
                     current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501,
                     Personnel Security Program Management.
                     For award and retention of 1B451, must attain and maintain a minimum Information
                     Assurance Technical Level II certification according with AFMAN 33-285,
                     Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program.
 IMPLEMENTATION      Entry into formal journeyman upgrade training is accomplished once individuals are
                     assigned to their first duty station. Qualification training is initiated anytime
                     individuals are assigned duties for which they are not qualified. Use OJT, CDCs,
                     CFETP, CBTs, and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the necessary
                     qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.

10.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE           All 1B451 knowledge qualifications apply to the 1B471 requirements
 TRAINING            Completion of the 1B471 Career Development Course.
                     Completion of all STS core tasks.
                     Completion of applicable AFJQS/AFQTPs.
                     Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position to include Crew Position
                     Certification if required for duty position.
 EXPERIENCE          Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1B451
                     Experience performing or supervising Cyber Warfare Operations functions as outlined
                     in Section B, para. 4.
 OTHER               Requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment, completion of a
                     current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501,
                     Personnel Security Program Management,is mandatory for award and retention of this
                     skill level.
                     For award and retention of 1B471, must attain and maintain a minimum Information
                     Assurance Technical Level II certification according with AFMAN 33-285,
                     Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program.
 IMPLEMENTATION      Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals obtain the necessary rank and skill level.
                     Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties for which
                     they are not qualified. Use OJT, CBTs, CDCs, CFETP, and AFJQSs/AFQTPs
                     concurrently to obtain the necessary qualification for refresher and cross-utilization
                     training.




                                                  20
10.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE             Resource Management
                       Manpower and Organization
                       Training Management
                       Deployment Management
                       Base/Unit Functional Management
 TRAINING              None

 EXPERIENCE            Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1B471
                       Managing and directing Cyber Warfare Operations personnel and processes.
 OTHER                 Requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment, completion of a
                       current Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501,
                       Personnel Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and retention of
                       this skill level.
 IMPLEMENTATION        Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals are selected for the rank of SMSgt.
                       Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for which
                       they are not qualified.

10.5. Training Sources.
10.5.1. AFSC specific training - 333 TRS, Keesler AFB, MS at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
10.5.2. CDCs 1B4X1 are available for upgrade purposes through the Unit Training Manager.
For individual qualification and cross-utilization training, CDCs are ordered through the unit
training office.
10.5.3. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are Air Force publications and are mandatory for use by personnel in
upgrade or qualification training. They are developed by the 81 TRSS (Q-Flight), Keesler AFB,
MS and may be downloaded from
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/20946/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx.
10.5.3.1. Procedures for requesting development of AFJQSs/AFQTPs are contained in AFI 33-
154, Air Force On-the-Job Training Products for Cyberspace Support Enlisted Specialty
Training. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are listed in Part II, Section C, of this CFETP.




                                                    21
Section D - Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Included are narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training, the resources needed, and actions required
to satisfy the training requirements.
12. Apprentice (3-Level) Training. There are no constraints.
13. Journeyman (5-Level) Training. There are no constraints.
14. Craftsman (7-Level) Training. There are no constraints.
15. Superintendent (9-Level) Training. There are no constraints.
Section E - Transition Training Guide
There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                22
PART II
Section A - Specialty Training Standard
1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the 3-
level class beginning 01 October 2015.
2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, this STS:
2.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references necessary for Airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, 7-, and
9-skill level. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies, by skill level specialty-wide training
requirements. NOTE: Core tasks are minimum task training requirements for upgrade.
2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
qualifications, if available. For initial certification or transcribing documentation complete the
columns in accordance to AFI 36-2201.
2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See the Air
Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA) CDC/eCDC catalog maintained at
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/AE-ED-02-
37/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx?RootFolder=%2Fsites%2FAE%2DED%2D02%2D37%2
FAFKN%5FDocs%2Fe%2DCDC%5FCDC%20Catalog for current CDC listings.
2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 3 contains the tasks, knowledge, and proficiency
levels referenced in paragraph 2.1. Columns are marked with a proficiency code to indicate
subjects taught. An X in the proficiency code column indicates a lack of student man years and
instructor resources. Trainees without prerequisites specified in Education and Training Course
Announcement (ETCA) cannot be expected to meet proficiency levels indicated.
PREREQUISITES: Possession of DoD 8570.1M qualifying certification as well as completion
of IT Fundamentals (Attachments 2 and 1).
2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form
623, Individual Training Record folder, and used according to AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
Program.
2.6. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) are developed at the AETC Airmen
Advancement Division by senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields.
The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team
members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study
references listed in the Enlisted Promotion References and Requirements Catalog (EPRRC).
Individual responsibilities are listed in chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel
Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Reserve Forces.




                                                 23
3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of
AETC training. A Training Feedback Hotline has been installed for the supervisors'
convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our Training Feedback Hotline at DSN 597-
4566, , or e-mail us 81trg-tget@us.af.mil.. Reference this STS and identify the specific area of
concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc).

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL                                    WILLIAM J. BENDER, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            Chief, Information Dominance and
                                             Chief Information Officer



Attachments:
1. IT Fundamentals Course Training Standard (CTS)
2. Security+ Certification CTS
3. Specialty Training Standard (STS) 1B4X1




                                               24
                                                                                                                  IT Fundamentals CTS


                                                                PREFACE
NOTE 1: Dashed items in this CTS are not part of the original CTS created at the March 2009
IT Fundamentals conference however, they are the specific objectives taught in the IT
Fundamentals course designed to meet the CTS requirements.
NOTE 2: Unless otherwise stated, students may be allowed two assists from the instructor and
still successfully achieve the proper level of proficiency. An instructor assist is anytime an
instructor must intercede to provide guidance to a student which leads to a satisfactory
completion of the objective or to prevent the student from continuing in a manner that will lead
to an unsatisfactory conclusion, safety violation, or damage to equipment.
NOTE 3: All 3-level tasks will be trained if a wartime surge is ordered.

                                                             Proficiency Code Key

                                             Scale Value
                                                                         Definition: The individual
                                                         1               Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how
                                                                         to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)

                                                         2               Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.
                                                                         (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
Task Performance Levels
                                                         3               Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of
                                                                         completed work. (COMPETENT)

                                                         4               Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or
                                                                         show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                                                         a               Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.
                                                                         (NOMENCLATURE)
                                                         b               Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.
                                                                         (PROCEDURES)
*Task Knowledge Levels
                                                         c               Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each
                                                                         step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                                                         d               Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.
                                                                         (ADVANCED THEORY)
                                                        A                Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)

                                                        B                Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general
                                                                         principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
**Subject Knowledge Levels
                                                        C                Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the
                                                                         subject. (ANALYSIS)
                                                        D                Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                                                                         subject. (EVALUATION)
                                                                  Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
  subject common to several tasks. This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course
  or CDC.
X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.




                                                                        25                                               Attachment 1
                                                                      IT Fundamentals CTS


1. ELECTRONICS SUPPORT SUBJECTS
    1.1. Safety                                                                      B
    1.2. First Aid                                                                   A
    1.3. Personal and Family Countermeasures (CM)                                    A
2. DIGITAL NUMBERING SYSTEMS (Internal Data Representation)
    2.1. Conversions
    2.1.1. Binary                                                                    B
    2.1.2. Hexadecimal                                                               B
    2.1.3. Binary Coded Decimal                                                      A
    2.2. Calculate Hexadecimal Numbers                                               X
3. BASIC COMPUTER FUNDAMENTALS
    3.1. Communications/Network Protocols
    3.1.1. Connection Oriented Communication                                         A
    3.1.2. Connectionless Oriented Communication                                     A
   3.1.3. International Standards Organization (ISO) Open Systems Interconnect       A
(OSI) Model
    3.1.4. TCP/IP                                                                    A
    3.1.5. Department of Defense (DoD) Standards Protocol                            A
    3.1.6. IPV4/IPV6                                                                 A
    3.1.7. Ports (IP)                                                                A
    3.2. Network Theory/Components
    3.2.1. Components
    3.2.1.1. Component Principles                                                    B
    3.2.1.2. Central Processing Unit (CPU)                                           A
    3.2.1.3. Computer memory                                                         A
    3.2.1.4. Input/output (I/O) Devices                                              A
    3.2.1.5. Storage Devices                                                         A
    3.2.1.6. Peripherals (Printers, FAX, Scanners, etc)                              A
    3.2.2. Network Types
    3.2.2.1. Wired ( LAN, WAN, MAN)                                                  A
    3.2.2.2. Wireless                                                                A
    3.2.2.3. Virtual Private Network (VPN)                                           A
    3.2.2.4. Video Teleconference                                                    A


                                             26                           Attachment 1
                                                                     IT Fundamentals CTS


   3.2.2.5. Topologies (Star, Ring, Bus, Hybrid, etc)                               A
   3.3. Data Terminal Equipment/Data Communications Equipment (DTE/DCE)
   3.3.1. Modems                                                                    A
   3.3.2. Converters                                                                A
   3.3.3. Gateways                                                                  A
   3.3.4. Switches                                                                  A
   3.3.5. Bridges/Routers                                                           A
   3.3.6. Encryption/COMSEC Devices (Data and Voice)                                A
   3.3.7. Communications Mediums                                                    A
   3.3.8. Multiplexing
   3.3.8.1. Multiplexers                                                            A
   3.3.8.2. Wave Division Multiplexing                                              A
   3.3.8.3. Time Division Multiplexing                                              A
   3.4. Software
   3.4.1. Operating Systems (UNIX, Windows, LINUX, etc.)                            A
   3.4.2. Applications (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, SharePoint, etc.)                  A
   3.4.3. Infectious and Malicious Software                                         A
4. CRYPTOLOGY (Bound & Unbound)
   4.1. Bulk Encryption                                                             A
   4.2. Information Encryption Techniques                                           A
   4.3. Separation Requirements                                                     A
5. NETWORK FAULT ISOLATION TECHNIQUES
   5.1. Network Error Detection                                                    1a
   5.2. Network Error Correction                                                   1a
   5.3. Network Flow Control                                                       1a
   5.4. Transmission Impairments                                                   1a
   5.5. Network Management Concepts and Responsibilities                            B
6. CYBER SECURITY
   6.1. Cyber Vulnerabilities                                                       A
   6.2. Vulnerability Preventative Measures                                         A
   6.3. Identity Management                                                         A
   6.4. Wireless Network Security                                                   A



                                              27                         Attachment 1
                                                                           IT Fundamentals CTS


7. COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION PROFESSIONALS
    7.1. Organizations                                                                    A
    7.2. Communications Competencies                                                      A
    7.3. Expeditionary Communications                                                     X
8. RISK MANAGEMENT (RM) TR: AFIs 90-802, 91-203, 91-302
    8.1. RM                                                                               A
9. PUBLICATIONS AND DIRECTIVES TR: AFINDs 5 & 8; AFIs 33-Series
    9.1. Department of Defense (DoD)                                                      X
    9.2. Air Force                                                                        X
    9.3. Commercial/Vendor publications                                                   X
    9.4. DISA Publications                                                                X
    9.5. Technical Orders (TO)                                                            X
    9.6. Standard Installation Practices Technical Order (SIPTO)                          X
    9.7. Enterprise Information Architecture (EIA)/ Telecommunications Industry           X
Association (TIA)
    9.8. Military Standard (MIL STD)                                                      X
10. LEGAL/ETHICS TR: USC TITLE 10, 18 and 50; Joint Information Doctrine
(Joint Pub 3-13); AF Information Operations Doctrine 3-13; Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
     10.1. US Codes (e.g. Titles 10, 15, 18, 32, 50) (e.g. Constitutional Authority,      A
legal aspects of rules of engagement, homeland defense, Posse Comitatus, US Charter
Paradigm, Schmidt Analysis)
    10.2. Rules of Engagement (ROE)
    10.2.1. Policy                                                                        A
    10.2.2. Security Tools                                                                A
    10.2.3. Cyber Management Ethics                                                       A
    10.2.4. System Monitoring                                                             A
    10.3. Special Data Protection (i.e. sensitive personnel information)                  A
11. C4I SECURITY TR: ACP 122; AFIs 10-712, 33-129, 33-102, 33-332 33-138;
AFKAG-1&2; AFMAN 33-326; DOD 5200.1-R
    11.1. Operations Security (OPSEC) TR: AFI 10-701; AFPD 10-7
    11.1.1. Definition                                                                    X
    11.1.2. Relationship of OPSEC to other security programs                              X
    11.1.3. Vulnerabilities                                                               X


                                             28                                Attachment 1
                                                                    IT Fundamentals CTS


       11.1.4. Critical Information                                                X
       11.2. Information Security TR: AFI 31-401; AFPD 31-4, 33-2
       11.2.1. Information safeguards
       11.2.1.1. Unclassified
       11.2.1.1.1. Privacy Act (PA)                                                A
       11.2.1.1.2. For Official Use Only (FOUO)                                    A
       11.2.1.1.3. Sensitive Unclassified                                          A
       11.2.1.2. Classified                                                        A
       11.3. Communications Security (COMSEC) TR: AFI 31-401; AFPDs 33-2 and
31-4
       11.3.1. Definition                                                          A
       11.3.2. Vulnerabilities                                                     A
       11.3.3. Safeguarding Information                                            A
       11.4. Emission Security (EMSEC) TR: AFI 33-203 (V1), AFPD 33-2
       11.4.1. Definition                                                          A
       11.4.2. Notifications                                                       A
       11.4.3. Vulnerabilities                                                     A
       11.4.4. Protected Distribution System (PDS)                                 A
   11.5. Computer Security (COMPUSEC) TR: AFI 33-200; AFMAN 33-282;
AFPD 33-2
       11.5.1. Definition                                                          A
       11.5.2. Vulnerabilities                                                     A
       11.6. Physical Security TR: AFI 31-101; AFPD 31-1
       11.6.1. Definition                                                          A
       11.6.2. Secure Area Access Management                                       X
       11.6.3. Facility Security Requirements                                      X
       11.6.4. Classified Material Control
       11.6.4.1. Storage                                                           A
       11.6.4.2. Transport                                                         A
       11.6.4.3. Handling                                                          A
       11.6.4.4. Destruction                                                       X
       11.6.4.5. Classified Waste                                                  X
       11.7. Information Assurance TR: AFI 33-200


                                                29                      Attachment 1
                                                                       IT Fundamentals CTS


    11.7.1. Definition                                                                A
    11.7.2. Threats and Vulnerabilities                                               A
    11.7.3. Protective Measures                                                       A
    11.8. Information Conditions (INFOCON)                                            A
12. AIR AND SPACE EXPEDITIONARY FORCE (AEF)
    12.1. Equipment (e.g. LOGDET)                                                     X
    12.2. Personnel (e.g. MANFOR)                                                     X
13. ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS TR: AFI 13 Series
    13.1. Defense Information Systems Network (DISN)                                  A
    13.2. Defense Switched Network (DSN)                                              A
    13.3. Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET) TR: DISACs            A
370-P120-3, 310-P70-73, 310-P70-74, 310-P70-75
    13.4. Secure Networks
    13.4.1. Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET)                         A
    13.4.2. Defense Red Switch Network (DRSN)                                         A
14. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
    14.1. Communication Squadron                                                      X
    14.2. Combat Communications Squadrons                                             X
    14.3. Expeditionary Communications Squadron                                       X
    14.4. Air Force Network Operations (AFNETOPS)                                     X
    14.5. Air Force Network Operations Center (AFNOC)                                 X
    14.6. Integrated Network Operations Security Center (INOSC)                       X
    14.7. Enterprise Service Unit (ESU)                                               X
    14.8. Area Processing Center (APC)                                                X
    14.9. Enterprise Service Desk (ESD)                                               X
15. CYBER OPERATIONS
    15.1. Structure                                                                   A
    15.2. Missions
    15.2.1. Offensive                                                                 A
    15.2.2. Defensive                                                                 A
    15.2.3. Exploitation                                                              A
    15.2.4. Other (e.g. Influence Operations (IFO), Electronic Warfare (EW))          A
    15.3. Network Warfare Fundamentals

                                            30                             Attachment 1
                                                                         IT Fundamentals CTS


    15.3.1. Control Systems (e.g. Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition               A
(SCADA) networks)
    15.3.2. Tactical Data Link (TADL) networks                                           A
    15.3.3. Network Exploitation Capabilities                                            A
    15.4. Cyber Capabilities
    15.4.1. Affects on adversary decision makers                                         A
     15.4.2. Role of cyber operations in achieving military and national goals and       A
objectives
    15.4.3. Information Superiority                                                      X
    15.4.4. Role of 624th Operations Center                                              X
    15.4.5. Role of 67th Cyberspace Wing                                                 X
    15.4.6. Role of 688th Cyberspace Wing                                                X
    15.4.7. Role of an Air Operations Center (AOC)                                       X
    15.4.8. Ops Defensive Measures                                                       A
    15.4.9. Ops Capabilities                                                             A




                                              31                              Attachment 1
                                                                        Security+ Certification CTS


  Code         Definition
               Subject Knowledge Training - The verb selection identifies the individual’s ability
  K            to identify facts, state principles, analyze, or evaluate the subject.
               Performance Training - Identifies that the individual has performed the task to the
  P            satisfaction of the course; however, the individual may not be capable of meeting
               the field requirements for speed and accuracy.
               Performance Knowledge Training - The verb selection identifies the individual’s
  pk           ability to relate simple facts, procedures, operating principles, and operational
               theory for the task.
  -            No training provided in the course or CDC.
  X           Training is required but not provided due to limitations in resources.
  Each STS element is written as a behavioral statement. The detail of the statement and verb
  selection reflects the level of training provided by resident training and CDCs.
Table source: AFI 36-2201, figure A4.4.

                             Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level
1. SECURITY+ CERTIFICATION
  1.1. Network Security
   1.1.1. Implement security configuration parameters on network devices and other
                                                                                              pk
        technologies
   1.1.2. Given a scenario, use secure network administration principles                      pk
      1.1.3. Explain network design elements and components                                    K
      1.1.4. Given a scenario, implement common protocols and services                        pk
      1.1.5. Given a scenario, troubleshoot security issues related to wireless networking    pk
  1.2. Compliance and Operational Security
      1.2.1. Explain the importance of risk related concepts                                   K
      1.2.2. Summarize the security implications of integrating systems and data with
                                                                                               K
           third parties
      1.2.3. Given a scenario, implement appropriate risk mitigation strategies               pk
      1.2.4. Given a scenario, implement basic forensic procedures                            pk
      1.2.5. Summarize common incident response procedures                                     K
      1.2.6. Explain the importance of security related awareness and training                 K
      1.2.7. Compare and contrast physical security and environmental controls                 K
      1.2.8. Summarize risk management best practices                                          K
      1.2.9. Given a scenario, select the appropriate control to meet the goals of security   pk


                                                  32                                Attachment 2
                                                                    Security+ Certification CTS


1.3. Threats and Vulnerabilities
 1.3.1. Explain types of malware                                                          K
 1.3.2. Summarize various types of attacks                                                K
 1.3.3. Summarize social engineering attacks and the associated effectiveness with
                                                                                          K
      each attack
 1.3.4. Explain types of wireless attacks                                                 K
 1.3.5. Explain types of application attacks                                              K
 1.3.6. Analyze a scenario and select the appropriate type of mitigation and
                                                                                          pk
      deterrent techniques
 1.3.7. Given a scenario, use appropriate tools and techniques to discover security
                                                                                          pk
      threats and vulnerabilities
 1.3.8. Explain the proper use of penetration testing versus vulnerability scanning       K
1.4. Application, Data and Host Security
 1.4.1. Explain the importance of application security controls and techniques            K
 1.4.2. Summarize mobile security concepts and technologies                               K
 1.4.3. Given a scenario, select the appropriate solution to establish host security      pk
 1.4.4. Implement the appropriate controls to ensure data security                        pk
 1.4.5. Compare and contrast alternative methods to mitigate security risks in static
                                                                                          K
      environments
1.5. Access Control and Identity Management
 1.5.1. Compare and contrast the function and purpose of authentication services          K
 1.5.2. Given a scenario, select the appropriate authentication, authorization or
                                                                                          pk
      access control
 1.5.3. Install and configure security controls when performing account
                                                                                          pk
      management, based on best practices
1.6. Cryptography
 1.6.1. Given a scenario, utilize general cryptography concepts                           pk
 1.6.2. Given a scenario, use appropriate cryptographic methods                           pk
 1.6.3. Given a scenario, use appropriate PKI, certificate management and
                                                                                          Pk
      associated components




                                              33                               Attachment 2
                                                                                                        1B4X1 STS


                                     THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY

                                                Personal Data – Privacy Act of 1974

PRINTED NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)                      INITIALS (Written)   LAST 4 OF SSAN



                        PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER AND CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I




                                                               34                                  Attachment 3
                                                                                                                             1B4X1 STS


                                                         PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                                                        0B




-             SCALE     DEFINITION: The individual
              VALUE
                1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
Performance
   Levels




                2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
    Task




                3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
                4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
Knowledge
  Levels




                b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
  *Task




                c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
                A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
Knowledge
 **Subject

   Levels




                B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
                C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
                D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
                                                                   Explanations
*      A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific
       task. (Example: b and 1b)
**     A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for
       a subject common to several tasks. This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in
       the course or CDC.
(-)    This mark is used alone in Proficiency Codes Course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
       resources.
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.
(-)    When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates that the qualification is a local determination.
(5) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 5-level
    requirement. The training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.
(7) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 7-level
    requirement. The training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.


      CDC Column. The use of proficiency coding indicates the level of knowledge training provided
      by the CDCs. Information pertaining to the meaning of the code can be located in the STS
      coding system table.




                                                                        35                                            Attachment 3
                                                                                                    1B4X1 STS

                                                                               4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                       3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE               2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                          A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                   CORE
REFERENCES                      TASKS
                                        START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                               Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                        DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS
1. CYBER WARFARE
OPERATIONS CAREER
FIELD
TR: AFH 33-337; AFIs 10-
400, 10-252 33-100, 33-101,
33-115 Vols 1 & 3, 33-150,
36-2201, 38-201; AFMAN
36-2108; 1B4X1 CFETP;
AFECD; AFOCD
1.1. Structure                    5                                               A         A         -          -
1.2. Progression within Air                                                                           -          -
                                  5                                               A         A
Force Specialty Code 1B4X1
1.3. Read CFETP 1B4X1                                                                                 -          -
                                  5                                               -         -
Part I
1.4. Air Force Specialty Code
1B4X1
1.4.1. Explain Duties of                                                                              -          -
                                  5                                               A         A
AFSC
1.4.2. Explain                                                                                        -          -
                                  5                                               A         A
Responsibilities of AFSC
1.4.3. AFSC Core                                                                                      -          -
                                  5                                               -         -
Competencies
1.5. Related Cyber Career
Fields
1.5.1. Enlisted                   5                                               A         -         -          -

1.5.2. Officer                    5                                               A         -         -          -

1.5.3. Civilians, Contractors     5                                               A         -         -          -

1.6. Supervisory Duties
1.6.1. Personnel Assignment
Tools
1.6.1.1. Unit Manpower                                                            -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   A
Document (UMD)
1.6.1.2. Unit Personnel                                                           -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   A
Management Roster (UPMR)
1.6.1.3. Authorization                                                            -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   A
Change Request (ACR)
1.6.2. Orient Newly Assigned                                                      -         -                    -
Personnel to Organization,
                                  7                                                                   A
Mission, Training and
Certification Requirements
1.6.3. Establish Duty                                                             -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   A
Schedules
1.6.4. Mobility/Contingency
Operations/Readiness
1.6.4.1. Unit Type Code
(UTC)
1.6.4.1.1. Manpower Force                                                         -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   A
(MANFOR)
1.6.4.1.2. Logistics Details                                                      -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   A
(LOGDET)
1.6.4.1.3. Mission                                                                -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   A
Capabilities (MISCAP)
1.6.4.2. Deployment                                                               -         -                    -
Readiness Manning                 7                                                                   A
Document (DRMD)




                                                           36                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                    1B4X1 STS

                                                                               4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                       3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE               2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                          A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                   CORE
REFERENCES                      TASKS
                                        START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                               Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                        DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS
1.6.4.3. Operations Plan
(OPLAN)/Time Phased Force
                                  7                                                                   A
Deployment Document                                                               -         -                    -
(TPFDD)
1.6.4.4. AEF Reporting Tool                                                       -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   A
(ART)
1.6.4.5. Status of Resources                                                      -         -                    -
and Training System               7                                                                   A
(SORTS)
1.6.4.6. Defense Readiness                                                        -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   A
Reporting System (DRRS)
1.6.5. Training
1.6.5.1. Air Force Training                                                       -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   B
Program
1.6.5.2. Plan and Schedule                                                        -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   -
On the Job Training (OJT)
1.6.5.3. Coordinate with Unit                                                     -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   -
Training Manager
1.6.5.4. Conduct Initial                                                          -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   -
Evaluation
1.6.5.5. Evaluate Adequacy                                                        -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   -
of Training
1.6.5.6. Administer the CDC                                                       -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   -
Program
                                  7                                               -         -         -          -
1.6.5.7. Use Current CFETP
                                  7                                               -         -         -          -
1.6.5.8. Conduct OJT
                                  7                                               -         -         -          -
1.6.5.9. Evaluate OJT
1.6.5.10. Manage OJT                                                              -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   -
Documentation
1.6.5.11. Identify Additional                                                     -         -                    -
                                  7                                                                   A
Formal Training Requirements
2. NETWORKING
CONCEPTS
TR: AFI 33-150; Cisco
CCNA/CCENT Exam 640-
802, 640-822, 640-816 Prep
Kit; IEEE 802
2.1. Digital Numbering
Systems (Internal Data
Representation)
2.1.1. Formats
                                  -                                               B         B         -          -
2.1.1.1. Binary
                                  -                                               B         B         -          -
2.1.1.2. Hexadecimal
2.1.2. Physical                                                                                       -          -
                                  -                                               A         -
Representation of Numbers
2.1.3. Convert Digital                                                                                -          -
                                  -                                              2b         b
Numbers Across Formats
2.1.4. Boolean Logic                                                                                  -          -
                                  -                                               B         B
Arguments
2.2. Standards and
Frameworks
2.2.1. OSI Model                  5                                               B         B         -          -

2.2.2. Protocol Data Units        -                                               A         -         -          -




                                                           37                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                     1B4X1 STS

                                                                                4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                        3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                           A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                    CORE
REFERENCES                       TASKS
                                         START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                                Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                         DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS
2.2.3. Institute of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers
(IEEE) Standards
2.2.3.1. IEEE 802                  -                                               A         -         -          -

2.2.3.2. IEEE 802.1X               -                                               A         -         -          -

2.2.3.3. IEEE 802.3                -                                               A         -         -          -

2.2.3.4. IEEE 802.11               -                                               A         -         -          -

2.3. TCP/IP Suite                                                                            -         -          -
2.3.1.                                                                                                 -          -
                                   5                                               B         B
Encapsulation/Decapsulation
2.3.2. Structure                   5                                               B         B         -          -

2.4. Network Addressing

2.4.1. Data-Link Layer
2.4.1.1. Media Access
Control (MAC)
                                   -                                               B         B         -          -
2.4.1.1.1. Address Structure
2.4.1.1.2. Ethernet Frame                                                                    B         -          -
                                   -                                               B
Structure
2.4.2. Network Layer
2.4.2.1. Internet Protocol (v4
& v6)
                                   -                                               B         B         -          -
2.4.2.1.1. Address Structure
                                   -                                               B         B         -
2.4.2.1.2. Packet Structure
                                   -                                               B         B         -          -
2.4.2.1.3. Classful
                                   -                                               B         B         -          -
2.4.2.1.4. Classless
                                   -                                               B         B         -          -
2.4.2.1.5. Private/Public
2.4.2.1.6. Perform IPv4                                                                      b         -          -
                                   5                                              2b
Subnetting
                                   -                                               A         -         -          -
2.4.2.1.7. IPv6 Subnetting
                                   -                                               A         -         -          -
2.4.2.1.8. Supernetting
2.5. Routing Protocols
                                   -                                               B         -         -          -
2.5.1. Interior
                                   -                                               B         -         -          -
2.5.2. Exterior
                                   -                                               B         -         -          -
2.5.3. Link-state
2.6. Networks
2.6.1. Physical and Logical
Topology
                                   -                                               B         -         -          -
2.6.1.1. Bus
                                   -                                               B         -         -          -
2.6.1.2. Star
                                   -                                               B         -         -          -
2.6.1.3. Mesh
                                   -                                               B         -         -          -
2.6.1.4. Hybrid
2.6.2. Media Access Control                                                                            -          -
                                   -                                               B         B
Protocols




                                                            38                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                   1B4X1 STS

                                                                              4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                      3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE              2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                         A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                  CORE
REFERENCES                     TASKS
                                       START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                              Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                       DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS
2.6.3. Packet Switched                                                                               -          -
                                 -                                               B         B
Networks
2.6.4. Circuit Switched                                                          A         A         -          -
                                 -
Networks
2.6.5. Transmission Methods                                                                          -          -
                                 -                                               A         A
and Medium
                                 -                                               A         B         -          -
2.6.6. Inter-Networking
                                 -                                               A         B         -          -
2.6.7. Intra-Networking
2.7. 802.3 Local Area
Networking
2.7.1. Cisco Router and
Switch
2.7.1.1. Navigate Cisco IOS                                                                -         -          -
                                 -                                              2b
command line interface
2.7.1.2. Configure Cisco                                                                   -         -          -
Device Security IAW              -                                              2b
Applicable STIG
2.7.1.3. Manipulate
Networking Devices
                                 -                                              2b         -         -          -
2.7.1.3.1. Interface Address
                                 -                                              2b         -         -          -
2.7.1.3.2. VLAN
                                 -                                              2b         -         -          -
2.7.1.3.3. Routing Protocol
2.7.1.4. Enumerate                                                                         -         -          -
Configuration and Connected      -                                              2b
Devices
                                 -                                              2b         -         -          -
2.7.1.5. Utilize MAC Table
2.7.1.6. Copy Device                                                                       -         -          -
                                 -                                              2b
Configuration
2.7.1.7. Erase Device                                                                      -         -          -
                                 -                                              2b
Configuration
2.7.1.8. Implement Access                                                                  -         -          -
                                 -                                              2b
Control List
2.7.1.9. Implement Port                                                                    -         -          -
                                 -                                              2b
Security
2.7.1.10. Configure Port                                                                   -         -          -
                                 -                                              2b
Mirroring
                                 -                                              2b         -         -          -
2.7.1.11. Copy System Image
2.7.1.12. Enable Secure                                                                              -          -
                                 -                                              2b         -
Remote Configuration Access
2.8. Virtual Private Network
                                 -                                               B         B         -          -
2.8.1. Protocols
                                 -                                               B         B         -          -
2.8.2. Components
2.9. 802.11 Wireless
Networking
2.9.1. Fundamentals
                                 -                                               B         B         -          -
2.9.1.1. Topology
                                 -                                               B         B         -          -
2.9.1.2. Components
                                 -                                               B         B         -          -
2.9.1.3. Security
2.9.2. Manipulate Wireless
Access Point
                                 -                                              2b         -         -          -
2.9.2.1. Connectivity



                                                          39                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                     1B4X1 STS

                                                                                4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                        3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                           A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                    CORE
REFERENCES                       TASKS
                                         START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                                Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                         DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS

                                   -                                              2b         -         -          -
2.9.2.2. Security
2.10. Network Traffic Analysis
                                   5                                               B         B         -          -
2.10.1. Fundamentals
2.10.2. Network Traffic
Analysis Process
                                   5                                              2b         -         -          -
2.10.2.1. Capture Traffic
                                   5                                              2b         -         -          -
2.10.2.2. Analyze Traffic
2.10.2.3. Implement Session                                                                            -          -
                                   -                                              2b         -
Recovery from Raw Traffic
2.10.2.4. Identify Encoded                                                                             -          -
                                   -                                              2b         -
Traffic
2.10.2.5. Identify Malicious                                                                           -          -
                                   -                                              2b         -
Traffic
2.10.2.6. Identify from
Network Traffic the Hardware       -                                              2b         -         -          -
Manufacturer
2.10.2.7. Identify from                                                                                -          -
Network Traffic the OS             -                                              2b         -
Version
2.10.2.8. Identify from
Network Traffic Patch              -                                              2b         -         -          -
Release of OS Software
2.10.2.9. Identify Services
and Applications on a              5                                              2b         -         -          -
Network
3. OPERATING SYSTEM
CONCEPTS
TR: AF e-Learning, Linux:
Basic System Administration
Learning Track; UNIX
Essentials Learning Track;
Microsoft Windows 7 Learning
Track
3.1. Operating System Types
3.1.1. Windows
(Desktop/Server)
3.1.1.1. Components
                                   5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.1.1.1. Kernel
                                   5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.1.1.2. Registry
                                   5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.1.1.3. Drivers
                                   5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.1.1.4. Boot Process
3.1.1.2. File Structure
                                   5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.1.2.1. FAT
                                   5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.1.2.2. NTFS
                                   5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.1.3. Utilize CLI
                                   5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.1.4. Utilize GUI
3.1.1.5. Manipulate System
                                   5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.1.5.1. User Accounts




                                                            40                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                  1B4X1 STS

                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                     3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE             2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                        A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                 CORE
REFERENCES                    TASKS
                                      START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                             Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                      DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.1.5.2. File Systems
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.1.5.3. Network Shares
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.1.5.4. Network Settings
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.1.5.5. Services
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.1.5.6. Firewall
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.1.5.7. Logs
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.1.6. Utilize Registry
3.1.2. *NIX
3.1.2.1. Components
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.2.1.1. Kernel
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.2.1.2. Drivers
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.2.1.3. Boot Process
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.2.1.4. /proc
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
3.1.2.2. File Structure
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.2.3. Utilize CLI
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.2.4. Utilize GUI
3.1.2.5. Manipulate System
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.2.5.1. User Accounts
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.2.5.2. File Systems
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.2.5.3. Network Shares
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.2.5.4. Network Settings
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.2.5.5. Services
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.2.5.6. IP tables
                                5                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.2.5.7. Packages
                                -                                              2b         -         -          -
3.1.2.5.8. Logs
                                -                                               B         -         -          -
3.1.2.6. Utilize /proc
3.1.3. Mobile OSs
                                -                                               B         -         -          -
3.1.3.1. Overview
                                -                                               B         -         -          -
3.1.3.2. Components
                                -                                               -         -         -          -
3.1.3.3. File Structure
                                -                                               B         -         -          -
3.2. Virtualization
3.3. Scripting
                                -                                               A         -         -          -
3.3.1. Batch
3.3.2. Create Powershell                                                                  -         -          -
                                -                                              2b
Script
                                -                                              2b         -         -          -
3.3.3. Create Bash Script
                                -                                              2b         -         -          -
3.3.4. Create Python Script




                                                         41                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                    1B4X1 STS

                                                                               4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                       3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE               2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                          A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                   CORE
REFERENCES                      TASKS
                                        START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                               Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                        DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS

4. CYBER WARFARE
CONCEPTS AND
FUNDAMENTALS
TR: AFTTP 3-1.CWO; AFDD
3-12; AFPD 10-17; AFI 10-
1701, 33-150; CJCSM
6510.01B; JP 3-12
4.1. Fundamentals
4.1.1. Doctrine, Policy, TTPs                                                                         -          -
                                  5                                               A         B
and Guidance
                                  5                                               A         B         -          -
4.1.2. National Strategy
                                  5                                               A         B         -          -
4.1.3. Command and Control
4.1.4. Department of Defense                                                                          -          -
                                  5                                               A         B
Information Network (DoDIN)
4.1.5. Cyber Organizations                                                                            -          -
                                  5                                               A         B
and Missions

4.1.6. Cyber Mission Force
4.1.6.1. Definitions and                                                                              -          -
                                  5                                               A         B
Roles/Responsibilities
4.1.6.2. Command and                                                                                  -          -
                                  5                                               A         B
control
4.1.6.3. Mission Areas
                                  5                                               A         B         -          -
4.1.6.3.1. Defend the Nation
4.1.6.3.2. Operate and                                                                                -          -
                                  5                                               A         B
Defend the DODIN
4.1.6.3.3. Combatant                                                                                  -          -
                                  5                                               A         B
Command Support
4.1.6.4. Mission Forces
4.1.6.4.1. National Mission                                                                           -          -
                                  5                                               A         B
Force
                                  5                                               A         B         -          -
4.1.6.4.2. Protection Force
4.1.6.4.3. Combat Mission                                                                             -          -
                                  5                                               A         B
Force
4.1.7. Cyber Warfare                                                                                  -          -
                                  5                                               A         B
Operations
                                  5                                               A         B         -          -
4.1.8. Information Operations
4.2. Threat Types
                                  5                                               A         B         -          -
4.2.1. Internal
                                  5                                               A         B         -          -
4.2.2. External
                                  5                                               A         B         -          -
4.2.3. State Sponsored
                                  5                                               A         B         -          -
4.2.4. Non-State Sponsored
                                  7                                               -         -         B          -
4.2.5. Intelligence Sources
                                  7                                               A         -         B          -
4.2.6. Intelligence Reports
4.2.7. Tactics from Intel                                                                             -          -
                                  -                                               A         -
Sources
4.3. OCO/DCO Theory and
Methodology
                                  5                                               B         B         B          -
4.3.1. Offensive Theory




                                                           42                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                    1B4X1 STS

                                                                               4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                       3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE               2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                          A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                   CORE
REFERENCES                      TASKS
                                        START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                               Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                        DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS

                                  5                                               B         B         B          -
4.3.2. Defensive Theory
                                  5                                               B         -         -          -
4.3.3. Offensive Methodology
4.3.4. Defensive                                                                                                 -
                                  5                                               B         -         -
Methodology
4.3.5. Identify Offensive
Methods
4.3.5.1. Buffer Overflow                                                                              -          -
                                  5                                               B         B
Tactics and Techniques
                                  5                                               B         B         -          -
4.3.5.2. Privilege Escalation
                                  5                                               B         B         -          -
4.3.5.3. Rootkits
4.3.5.4. Redirection,                                                                                 -          -
                                  5                                               B         B
Triggering, and Exfiltration
                                  5                                               B         B         -          -
4.3.5.5. Social Engineering
                                  5                                               B         B         -          -
4.3.5.6. Persistent Access
                                  5                                               B         B         -          -
4.3.5.7. Man-in-the-Middle
4.3.5.8. (Distributed) Denial                                                                         -          -
                                  5                                               B         B
of Service
                                  5                                               B         B         -          -
4.3.5.9. Obfuscation
4.3.6. Identify Defensive
Methods
                                  5                                               B         B         -          -
4.3.6.1. Encryption
4.3.6.2. Secure                                                                                       -          -
                                  5                                               B         B
Configurations
                                  5                                               B         B         -          -
4.3.6.3. Secure Enclaves
4.3.6.4. Vulnerability                                                                                -          -
                                  5                                               B         B
Scanning
                                  5                                               B         B         -          -
4.3.6.5. Boundary Protection
4.3.6.6. Intrusion                                                                                    -          -
Detection/Pretention              5                                               B         B
(Host/Network)
4.4. Utilize Tools
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
4.4.1. Reconnaissance
4.4.2. Vulnerability                                                                                  -          -
                                  -                                              2b         -
Assessment
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
4.4.3. Password Cracking
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
4.4.4. Exploitation
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
4.4.5. Wireless
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
4.4.6. Persistent Access
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
4.4.7. Reverse Engineering
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
4.4.8. Forensics
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
4.4.9. Honeypots
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
4.4.10. Intrusion Detection
4.5. Information Assurance
4.5.1. Roles and                                                                                      -          -
                                  5                                               B         B
Responsibilities
                                  5                                               -         B         -          -
4.5.2. Emissions Security



                                                           43                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                     1B4X1 STS

                                                                                4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                        3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                           A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                    CORE
REFERENCES                       TASKS
                                         START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                                Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                         DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS
4.5.3. Communication                                                                                   -          -
                                   5                                               -         B
Security
                                   5                                               -         B         -          -
4.5.4. Computer Security
                                   5                                               B         B         -          -
4.5.5. Operations Security
                                   5                                               -         B         -          -
4.5.6. Physical Security
                                   5                                               -         B         -          -
4.5.7. Information Security
4.6. Crew Operations
                                   5                                               B         B         -          -
4.6.1. Operations Training
4.6.2. Standardization and                                                                             -          -
                                   5                                               B         B
Evaluation
4.6.3. Operational                                                                                     -          -
                                   5                                               B         B
Procedures
4.6.4. Crew Resource                                                                                   B          -
                                   7                                               A         -
Management
5. LAWS AND ETHICS
TR: AFDD 3-13; AFPD 10-7;
AFPD 10-17; USC TITLE 10,
17, 18, 50; Joint Pub 3-13,
Information Operations; Joint
Pub 3-12, Cyberspace
Operations; AFDD 3-13,
Information Operations;
Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act
(HIPAA)
5.1. US Codes ( Titles 10, 15,                                                                                    -
                                   5                                               A         B         -
17, 18, 32, 50)
5.2. Rules of Engagement
(ROE)
5.2.1. Policy                      5                                               A         B         -          -

5.2.2. Security Tools              5                                               A         B         -          -
5.2.3. Cyber Management                                                                                           -
                                   5                                               A         B         -
Ethics
5.2.4. System Monitoring           5                                               A         B         -          -
5.3. Special Data Protection
(i.e. Sensitive Personnel          -                                               A         -         -          -
Information)
5.4. Policy and Law
                                   5                                               A         B         -          -
5.4.1. Executive Orders
5.4.2. International Laws
Affecting Electronic               5                                               A         B         -          -
Communications
5.4.3. US Law
                                   5                                               A         B         -          -
5.4.3.1. Military Law
5.4.3.2. Intellectual Property                                                                                    -
                                   5                                               A         B         -
Laws
5.4.3.3. US Law Specific to                                                                                       -
                                   5                                               -         -         -
Electronic Crimes




                                                            44                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                  1B4X1 STS

                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                     3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE             2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                        A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                 CORE
REFERENCES                    TASKS
                                      START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                             Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                      DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS

6. CYBER SYSTEMS
TR: AFTTP 3-1.CWO; AFDD
3-12; AFPD 10-17; AFI 31-
401; JP 1-02; JP 3-12
6.1. Capabilities
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
6.1.1 Workstations/Servers
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
6.1.2. Data Networks
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
6.1.3. Voice Networks
                                -                                               -         B         -          -
6.1.4. Space Networks
                                -                                               -         B         -          -
6.1.5. Battlefield Networks
                                -                                               A         B         -          -
6.1.6. Industrial Systems
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
6.1.7. AFNET
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
6.1.8. Websites/Databases
6.2. Vulnerabilities
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
6.2.1. Workstations/Servers
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
6.2.2. Data Networks
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
6.2.3. Voice Networks
                                -                                               -         B         -          -
6.2.4. Space Networks
                                -                                               -         B         -          -
6.2.5. Battlefield Networks
                                -                                               A         B         -          -
6.2.6. Industrial Systems
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
6.2.7. AFNET
                                5                                               B         B         -          -
6.2.8. Websites/Databases
6.3. Components
                                -                                               B         -         B          -
6.3.1 Workstations/Servers
                                -                                               B         -         B          -
6.3.2. Data Networks
                                -                                               B         -         B          -
6.3.3. Voice Networks
                                -                                               -         -         B          -
6.3.4. Space Networks
                                -                                               -         -         B          -
6.3.5. Battlefield Networks
                                -                                               A         -         B          -
6.3.6. Industrial Systems
                                -                                               B         -         B          -
6.3.7. AFNET
                                -                                               B         -         B          -
6.3.8. Websites/Databases
6.4. Design
                                -                                               B         -         B          -
6.4.1 Workstations/Servers
                                -                                               B         -         B          -
6.4.2. Data Networks
                                -                                               B         -         B          -
6.4.3. Voice Networks
                                -                                               -         -         B          -
6.4.4. Space Networks
                                -                                               -         -         B          -
6.4.5. Battlefield Networks
                                -                                               A         -         B          -
6.4.6. Industrial Systems



                                                         45                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                    1B4X1 STS

                                                                               4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                       3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE               2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                          A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                   CORE
REFERENCES                      TASKS
                                        START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                               Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                        DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS

                                  -                                               B         -         B          -
6.4.7. AFNET
                                  -                                               B         -         B          -
6.4.8. Websites/Databases
6.5. Security
                                  -                                               B         -         B          -
6.5.1. Workstations/Servers
                                  -                                               B         -         B          -
6.5.2. Data Networks
                                  -                                               B         -         B          -
6.5.3. Voice Networks
6.5.4. Space and Satellite                                                                  -         B          -
                                  -                                               -
Networks
                                  -                                               -         -         B          -
6.5.5. Battlefield Networks
                                  -                                               A         -         B          -
6.5.6. Industrial Systems
                                  -                                               B         -         B          -
6.5.7. AFNET
                                  -                                               B         -         B          -
6.5.8. Websites/Databases
7. JOINT PLANNING
TR: JP 1-0; JP 2-0; JP 5-0;
JP 3-12; CJCSM 3122.07 Vol
I/II
7.1. Lines of Operations
                                  7                                               A         A         B          -
7.1.1. DODIN
                                  7                                               A         A         B          -
7.1.2. DCO
                                  7                                               A         A         B          -
7.1.3. OCO
7.2. Joint Command and
Planning Process
7.2.1. Structure and                                                                                             -
                                  7                                               A         A         B
Organization
                                  7                                               A         A         B          -
7.2.2. Levels of War
7.2.3. Roles and                                                                                                 -
                                  -                                               A         A         B
Responsibilities
7.3. Command and Control                                                                                         -
                                  7                                               -         -         B
(C2)
                                  7                                               -         -         B          -
7.4. Authorities
                                  7                                               A         A         B          -
7.5. Orders
7.6. Planning Process
Defined (JOPP)
                                  7                                               A         A         B          -
7.6.1. Deliberate Planning
                                  7                                               A         A         B          -
7.6.2. Crisis Action Planning
7.7. Integrated Joint Special
Technical Operations (IJSTO)
                                  -                                               A         A         B          -
7.7.1. Process
7.7.2. Roles and                                                                                                 -
                                  -                                               A         A         B
Responsibilities
7.8. Cyberspace Operational
Planning
                                  5                                               B         -         B          -
7.8.1. Cyber C2
                                  7                                               A         B         B          -
7.8.2. Synchronization
                                  7                                               A         B         B          -
7.8.3. Weaponeering



                                                           46                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                    1B4X1 STS

                                                                               4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                       3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE               2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                          A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                   CORE
REFERENCES                      TASKS
                                        START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                               Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                        DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS

                                  7                                               -         -         B          -
7.8.4. Asset/Target Analysis
                                  5                                               A         A         B          -
7.8.5. Intelligence Gain/Loss
                                  5                                               A         A         B          -
7.8.6. Technical Gain/Loss
                                  7                                               A         B         B          -
7.8.7. Deconfliction
7.8.8. Conduct OCO and                                                                                           -
                                  -                                               b         b         -
DCO Mission Planning
7.8.9. Cyber Ops
Assessments
                                  7                                               A         B         B          -
7.8.9.1. MOP/MOE
7.8.9.2. Conducting Ops                                                                                          -
                                  7                                               A         B         B
Assessment
7.8.9.3. Battle Damage                                                                                           -
                                  7                                               A         B         B
Assessment
8. CONDUCT OCO/DCO
TR: AFTTP 3-1.CWO; AFDD
3-12; AFPD 10-17; AFI 31-
401; JP 1-02; JP 3-12
8.1. Generate a Deny,
Degrade, Disrupt, Destroy, or
Deceive Effect
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
8.1.1. Workstations/Servers
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
8.1.2. Data Networks
                                  -                                               -         -         -          -
8.1.3. Voice Networks
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
8.1.4. Wireless Networks
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
8.1.5. Websites/Databases
                                  -                                               -         -         -          -
8.1.6. Space Networks
                                  -                                               -         -         -          -
8.1.7. Battlefield Networks
                                  -                                              1a         -         -          -
8.1.8. Industrial Systems
8.2. Actively Defend
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
8.2.1. Workstations/Servers
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
8.2.2. IP Networks
                                  -                                               -         -         -          -
8.2.3. Voice Networks
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
8.2.4. Wireless Networks
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
8.2.5. Websites/Databases
                                  -                                               -         -         -          -
8.2.6. Space Networks
                                  -                                               -         -         -          -
8.2.7. Battlefield Networks
                                  -                                              1a         -         -          -
8.2.8. Industrial Systems
                                  -                                              2b         -         -          -
8.2.9. AFNET
9. INCIDENT RESPONSE
TR: AFTTP 3-1.CWO; AFDD
3-12; AFPD 10-17; AFI 31-
401; JP 1-02; JP 3-12
                                  5                                               B         -         -          -
9.1. Methodology
                                  5                                               B         -         -          -
9.2. Incident Categories



                                                           47                                   Attachment 3
                                                                                                  1B4X1 STS

                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO INDICATE
                                                     3. OJT                      TRAINING/INFORMATION PROVIDED
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE             2.                                            3 SKILL   5 SKILL  7 SKILL    9 SKILL
                                        A      B              C      D        LEVEL      LEVEL    LEVEL     LEVEL
AND TECHNICAL                 CORE
REFERENCES                    TASKS
                                      START   STOP     TRAINEE    TRAINER
                                                                             Course      CDC       CDC       Course
                                      DATE    DATE     INITIALS   INITIALS
9.3. Remote Evidence                                                            -         -         -          -
                                -
Collection
                                -                                               -         -         -          -
9.4. Reporting
                                -                                               B         -         -          -
9.5. Forensics
                                -                                               -         -         -          -
9.6. Conduct Investigation
                                -                                               -         -         -          -
9.7. Incident Recovery
10. CAPABILITY
DEVELOPMENT
TR: AFTTP 3-1.CWO; AFDD
3-12; AFPD 10-17; AFI 31-
401; JP 1-02; JP 3-12
                                -                                               B         -         -          -
10.1. Fundamentals
                                -                                               -         -         -          -
10.2. Secure Programming
10.3. Agile Development                                                         -         -         -          -
                                -
Process
                                -                                               B         -         -          -
10.4. Reverse Engineering
                                -                                               -         -         -          -
10.5. Weaponization
                                -                                               -         -         -          -
10.6. Provisioning
10.7. Operational                                                               -         -         -          -
                                -
Frameworks
10.8. Functional Evaluation                                                     -         -         -          -
                                -
Fundamentals
                                -                                               -         -         -          -
10.9. Fuzzing Fundamentals
10.10. Real-Time Operations                                                     -         -         -          -
                                -
and Innovation




                                                         48                                   Attachment 3
Section B - Course Objective List
4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject
knowledge which is measured using a written test, PC indicates required task performance which
is measured with a performance progress check, and PC/W indicates separate measurement of
both knowledge and performance elements using a written test and a progress check.
5. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance
measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist.
Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be
required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which
means the student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of
the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step by step procedures for doing
the task.

Section C - Support Materials

7. There are currently no support materials. This area is reserved.

Section D - Training Course Index

8. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for continuation/
supplemental training. For information on all formal courses, refer to the Air Force Education
and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) database, at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

9. Air Force In-Residence Courses.
Course Number          Course Title                                                  Location

IOS-INWT 001           Intermediate Network Warfare Training                        Hurlburt Field
                                                                                    AFB, FL
                                                                                    Wright
WCYBER200              Cyberspace 200                                               Patterson AFB,
                                                                                    OH
                                                                                    Wright
WCYBER300              Cyberspace 300                                               Patterson AFB,
                                                                                    OH
                                                                                    Washington
E3OAR17D4 0A1A         Cyberspace 400
                                                                                    DC

10. Air University A4/A6 Courses.
For a current listing of Air University A4/6 courses go to http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.
11. Exportable Courses.
For a current list of the available CBT courses refer to AF e-Learning at https://www.my.af.mil/.


                                                49
Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements
12. There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.




                                            50
