DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 4A0X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                       Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330                                                           1 October 2012




                    HEALTH SERVICES MANAGEMENT

                                      AFSC 4A0X1




                              ―In Demand & Indispensable‖



                              CAREER FIELD
                       EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN



ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                HEALTH SERVICES MANAGEMENT SPECIALTY
                                              AFSC 4A0X1

                                                 Table of Contents

PART I

Preface                                                                                            3

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                                                      3

Section A, General Information                                                                     7
        Purpose of the CFETP
        Use of the CFETP
        Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B, Career Field Progression and Information                                                8
         Specialty Description
         Skill/Career Progression
                  Apprentice Level (3)
                  Journeyman Level (5)
                  Craftsman Level (7)
                  Superintendent Level (9)
         Training Decisions
         Community College of the Air Force
         Certification Opportunities

Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements                                                       15
         Purpose
         Training Requirements
                  Apprentice Level (3)
                  Journeyman Level (5)
                  Craftsman Level (7)
                  Superintendent Level (9)
         Special Experience Identifier (SEI)

Section D, Resource Constraints                                                                    18

Section E, Transitional Training Guide                                                             18

PART II

Section A, Specialty Training Standards                                                            19

Section B, Course Objective List (COL)                                                             59

Section C, Support Materials                                                                       59

Section D, Training Course Index                                                                   62

Section E, MAJCOM-Unique Requirements                                                              63

Section F, Documentation of Training                                                               63

OPR: 382 TRS/TRR
Certified by: CMSgt Jason A. Wagner (AFMOA/SGA)
Supersedes: CFETP4A0X1, 1 October 2007; CFETP4A0X1C1, 11 April 2008; CFETP4A0X1C2, 10 June 2008;
CFETP4A0X1C3, 14 August 2009
Pages: 64

                                                        2
PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training document that
identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task requirements
for this specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel with a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all
aspects of career field training. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty
position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; supervisors plan, manage, and control training within the specialty using both parts
of the plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty.

2.1.1. Section A explains the purpose for and how everyone will use the plan.

2.1.2. Section B identifies career field progression, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path.

2.1.3. Section C associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training, and
other).

2.1.4. Section D indicates resource/training constraints such as funds, manpower, equipment, facilities, etc.

2.1.5. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II contains six sections. At the unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan and conduct
training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

2.2.1. Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, Training References (TRs)
to support training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) - conducted training, wartime course, core task and
correspondence course requirements.

2.2.2. Section B contains the Course Objective List (COL) and training standards supervisors will use to determine if
Airmen satisfied training requirements.

2.2.3. Section C identifies available support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP) that may
be developed to support proficiency training.

2.2.4. Section D contains a training course index that supervisors can use to determine resources available to support
training. Included here are both mandatory and optional courses.

2.2.5. Section E identifies Major Command (MAJCOM)-unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine
additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II
to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient training
at the appropriate points in their career. This plan will enable us to train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list which describes a unique duty position.
Used by supervisors to document task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS are common to all serving in a particular
described duty position.

Air Force Training Record (AFTR). A hierarchical web-based system used to track enlisted training. The system
gives trainee, supervisor, and functional manager access to virtual training products, such as CFETP and AFJQS.
Additionally, they are able to create individual training plans and document upgrade training.

                                                               3
Air Reserve Component (ARC). The Air Reserve Component consists of the Air Force Reserve and Air National
Guard.

Ambulatory Data Module (ADM). Automated information system designed to capture and report patient encounter
data at the International Classification of Diseases, Clinical Modification (ICD-CM) and Current Procedural
Terminology (CPT) code detail.

Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA). The military's electronic health record
(EHR), AHLTA, is an enterprise-wide medical and dental information management system that provides secure online
access to Military Health System (MHS) beneficiaries’ records. It is used by medical clinicians in fixed and deployed
military treatment facilities (MTFs) worldwide. This centralized EHR allows health care personnel worldwide to access
complete, accurate health data to make informed patient care decisions - at the point of care - anytime, anywhere.
AHLTA is the first system to allow for the central storage of standardized electronic health record (EHR) data that is
available for worldwide sharing of patient information.

Army Training Requirement and Resources System (ATRRS). An Army Management Information System of
Record for managing student input to training. The on-line system integrates manpower requirements for individual
training with the processes by which the training base is resourced and training programs are executed. With the
consolidation of the Air Force 3-skill level school with the Army at the Medical Enlisted Training Campus (METC) this
is the primary training notification system.

Career Development Course (CDC). These self-study courses help airmen complete the specialty knowledge portion
of the dual-channel concept for the enlisted training program. Airmen must complete career development courses
successfully at various stages to advance in their careers. Career development courses are also available on a voluntary
basis for career broadening.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual charged with the responsibility for overseeing all training
and career field management aspects of an Air Force Specialty or group of specialties.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official. A person whom the commander assigns to determine an individual’s ability to perform a task to
required standards (also referred to as task certifier).

Computer-Based Training (CBT). Training accomplished via computer.

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identifies as minimum qualification requirements for everyone within an AFSC,
regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or in general across the AFSC.
Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.

Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) Coding. Standardized numeric codes assigned to every task and service a
medical practitioner may provide to a patient including medical, surgical and diagnostic services. They are then used by
insurers to determine the amount of reimbursement a practitioner will receive by an insurer. The standardization
throughout both governmental and private sector ensures uniformity.

Defense Medical Human Resources System internet (DMHRSi). A web-based human resource management system
that provides ready access to essential manpower, personnel, labor cost assignment, education and training, and
readiness information for the MHS.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A combination of formal training (technical school) and informal on-the-job
(OJT) training to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Family Health Operations (FHO). A model for Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH) in the Family Health
Clinics in the Air Force Medical Service. Deliver highest quality, evidence based, patient centered care to enrolled
patients through team oriented processes, good access, high continuity, communications, prevention, education, and


                                                            4
coordinated management of disease. This approach is employed to ensure operational readiness and operational health
of military members.

Go. The stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform the tasks without
supervision.

Health Care Optimization (HCO). The overall process of optimizing patient care by practicing the PCMH concept
and managing patient health and wellness through case and disease management and preventive health.

Health Informatics. A discipline at the intersection of information science, computer science, and health care. It
incorporates resources, devices, and methods required for optimizing the acquisition, storage, retrieval, and use of
information in health and biomedicine.

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). This is Public Law 104-91 enacted 21 August 1996.
The purpose of the Act is to improve the portability and continuity of health insurance coverage, improve access to long
term care services and coverage, and to simplify the administration of healthcare. A primary component of HIPAA is
the protection and privacy of individually identifiable health information. To comply with the HIPAA Privacy Rule the
DoD established a regulation, DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation, to implement the
requirements throughout the DoD medical health system.

Information Management/Information Technology (IM/IT). The functional area which handles computer systems,
local area network connectivity, software support, network security and information management training within our
Medical Treatment Facilities. Also includes management of telecommunication activities.

Integrated Disability Enrollment System (IDES). A joint program between the DoD and the Department of Veterans
Affairs (VA) designed to ensure seamless transition for DoD wounded, ill or injured personnel regarding care, benefits
and services in the VA system.

ICD-CM. Designed for the classification of morbidity and mortality information for statistical purposes, and for
indexing of hospital records by diseases and operations for data storage and retrieval.

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course resulting in an AFSC 3-skill level award for enlisted members.

Interactive Courseware. Computer-controlled training designed for student interaction with the learning environment
through input devices such as keyboards and light pens. The student’s decisions and inputs to the computer determine
the level, order, and pace of instructional delivery.

Major Command (MAJCOM) Functional Manager (MFM). A person appointed by their respective Command
Surgeon as the senior representative for an Air Force Specialty (AFS) within a specific MAJCOM. Among other
responsibilities, the MFMs work with AFCFM to develop, implement and maintain the CFETP.

Master Task List (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center, consisting of, at a
minimum, the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms 797, Job Qualification Standard
Continuation/Command JQS. The MTL should include tasks required for deployment and/or unit type code (UTC)
requirements.

Master Training Plan (MTP). Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center job requirements by
using a MTL and provides milestones for task, CDC completion, and prioritizes deployment/UTC, home station training
tasks, upgrade, and qualification tasks.

Medical Information Technology. The dynamic interaction of information management and technological systems
designed to meet the needs of a medical business enterprise.

Medical Readiness Decision Support System-Unit Level Tracking and Reporting Application (MRDSS-ULTRA).
A computer system used to display the percentages of readiness capability for assigned UTCs; view materiel
information; and update readiness personnel, training, and deployment information.



                                                            5
No Go. Term used to describe that a trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform task
without supervision.

Occupational Survey Report. A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of tasks performed
within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both upgrade
(skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.

Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH). A health care setting that facilitates partnerships between individual
patients, their personal physicians and when appropriate, their family. Care is facilitated by registries, information
technology, health information exchange and other means to assure patients receive the indicated care when and where
they need and want it in a culturally and linguistically appropriate manner.

Plan of Instruction. A course control document used for planning, organization, operation, and validation purposes.

Primary Care Management (PCM) Team. The patient treatment concept based on health care teams comprised of
providers, nurses, medical technicians and health services managers assigned to a specific patient population.

Program Objective Memorandum (POM). A part of the programming phase in the Planning, Programming,
Budgeting and Execution process. It is created to develop balanced, capability-based programs. The POM is vetted
through a budget review and provides adjustments to programs which are approved by AF/SG to TRICARE
Management Activity (TMA) to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD).

Proficiency Code. An alpha/numeric code assigned to a subject knowledge, task knowledge or task performance level.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence, exportable advanced training courses, or OJT, provided
to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific
duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills required to do the job.

Readiness Skills Verification (RSV). Recurring training necessary to maintain skills of a fully qualified individual to
adequately perform the mission and related duties required in peacetime and wartime.

Skills Training. A formal course that results in the award of a skill level.

Special Needs Identification and Assignment Coordination (SNIAC). A process to identify eligible U.S. Air Force
families with special medical and/or education requirements and helps those families obtain required services. The
process ensures families have access to necessary services upon reassignment, whether CONUS or OCONUS.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an AFS in terms of tasks and knowledge
which an Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform (or to know how to) on the job, and identifies the training
provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract between AETC and
the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools and
correspondence courses.

Task Certifier. See Certification Official.

Transportation Command (TRANSCOM) Regulating And Command & Control (C2) Evacuation System
(TRAC2ES) . A Web-based system that tracks and coordinates movement of sick or injured service men and women
within the military’s network of healthcare facilities around the world, during both war and peace.

Third Party Certification. An evaluation of completed training conducted by the task certifier and is only required
when directed by the AFCFM.



                                                             6
Total Force. All collective Air Force components (Active Duty, Reserve, Guard, and civilian elements) of the USAF.

Training Platforms (TP). Courses, CBT, and other methods of training for specific job training.

Unit Type Code (UTC). A five-character alpha/numerical code that uniquely identifies each type unit of the Armed
Forces.

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training which leads to attainment of a higher level of proficiency.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum led by the CFM and Training Pipeline Manager
Incorporating the expertise of MAJCOM AFSC Functional Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC
training personnel who determine career ladder training requirements.

Wartime Tasks. Tasks taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime environment. In response to a wartime
scenario, these tasks are taught in the 3-skill level course during a streamlined training environment.

PART I, SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides information necessary for the CFM, MFMs, commanders, training
managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field training
program. The plan outlines the training individuals should receive to develop and progress throughout their career. This
plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS
specific training an individual receives upon entry into the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-
skill level. For the 4A0X1 career field, initial and advanced skills training are provided by the 937 Training Group at
Fort Sam Houston, Texas. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill level. Qualification training is
actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific duty position. This training
program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills and
knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency
training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training
provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP
has several purposes—some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training program. Also, it is
used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual’s career.

1.1.1. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and recommends
education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.1.2. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the training delivery method.

1.1.3. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field training process.

1.2. Uses of the CFETP. The plan used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensuring comprehensive and cohesive
training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

1.2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, nonresident, field and exportable training based
upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the
AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

1.2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and proficiency
requirements. OJT, resident training, and contract training or exportable courses can satisfy identified requirements.
MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan and must not duplicate
existing training.

1.2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of courses in
Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

                                                              7
1.3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority for changes and updates to the
CFETP. Also, the CFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements.
Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

PART I, SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

2.1. Specialty Description. The following information incorporates the latest changes to the Enlisted Classification
Directory located on the Air Force Personnel Services website. Type ―Enlisted Classification Directory‖ in the search
block.

2.1.1. Clinic Duties (Front Desk Clerk) - Greets patient and verifies patient identity and eligibility. Checks in patient for
scheduled visits. Obtains/verifies third party insurance information. Identifies patients assigned to sensitive duty
program. Verifies and updates patient demographics. Determines if visit is accident or injury-related and documents
accordingly. Provides patient with required paperwork and clinic instructions and manages patient flow. Schedules
follow-up appointments as required. Tracks, or assists with tracking, diagnostic results and route to appropriate health
care provider. Displays patient appointments. Requests and recharge patient records. Generate provider rosters. Add
patients to wait list and modifies wait list requests.

2.1.2. Clinic Duties (Medical Office Manager) - Assists Group Practice Manager (GPM) with identifying and managing
capacity and demand by utilizing historical workload data. Assists GPM in developing and maintaining provider
templates. Inputs appointment templates/schedules into Composite Health Care System (CHCS). Supports biometric
data analysis/medical informatics, utilizing applicable reports and web-based tools. Coordinates patient referrals with
referral management center (RMC) as required. Obtains referral reports from RMC and routes to appropriate health
care provider. Performs end-of-day processing. Coordinates required documentation with appropriate clinical and
support functions. Assists the resource management office with auditing third party collections and coding activities to
ensure maximum reimbursement.

2.1.3 Informatics - Analyzes, evaluates, advises, and ensures the validity, completeness and accuracy of healthcare data
collected by automated systems used by the military health system. Additionally, serves as the primary clinic interface
for data quality initiatives, clinic audits (records, coding, insurance, etc) and other administrative processes as related to
data integrity, quality and collection. Performs review and research of DoD, Air Force Medical Service and web-based
guidance for data quality and business rule compliance. Assist with quantitative and qualitative analysis, trending,
projections, and forecasting on patient demographics, clinical data and patient/provider utilization data from multiple
automated information sources. Assist in analysis/trending, and data validation of business clinical healthcare data for
process improvements and DoD workload compliance.

2.1.4. Information Management/Information Technology (IM/IT) - Performs and manages medical information
technology functions and activities. Requests and documents technical assistance. Manages hardware and software
activities. Monitors information technology security programs. Performs customer support activities. Manages user-
training programs. Oversees service level agreements with communication communities. Manages and coordinates
telecommunication activities.

2.1.5. Personnel and Administration (P&A) - Manage or perform duties with the Individualized Newcomer Treatment
and Orientation (INTRO) program and in/out-processing of unit members. Monitor the OPR/EPR/LOE program.
Track and updates duty status. Perform personnel action changes and duty information updates. Manage the awards
and decoration program. Be functionally proficient with the Base Level Services Delivery Module, Defense Medical
Human Resources System-internet, Defense Travel System and Functional Area Records Manager programs.
Understand and assist members with leave, subsistence-in-kind, and controlled spend account issues. Manage the report
of survey and inventory management programs.

2.1.6. Personnel Reliability Program & Sensitive Duties - Understand the impact of medical conditions on
ability/reliability, and recognition of Potentially Disqualifying Information (PDI). Understand documentation and
reporting procedures. Manage the suspension and decertification recommendations process as well as the process of
returning a member to PRP status.



                                                              8
2.1.7. Medical Readiness - Performs duties as the unit deployment manager, managing Unit Type Codes (UTCs) and
ensuring assigned personnel are appropriately trained and equipped. Ensures publication and currency of unit plans and
provides input to wing plans (Medical Contingency Response Plan (MCRP), Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan, Disease Containment Plan, Installation Deployment Plan, etc.). Coordinates and manages medical deployment
activities. Serves as the Medical Readiness Decision Support System Unit Level Tracking and Reporting Application
unit system administrator and monitors unit reports. Prepares, briefs and submits readiness reports (SORTS, ART, etc).
Conducts, coordinates, schedules, tracks, and documents medical readiness training. Liaisons with the Medical
Logistics Office on war reserve materials with regards to deployability. Establishes and augments the medical and unit
control center. Provides training on management of classified material, utilization of communication devices, log of
events, and after-action reports. Supports MCRP, UTC team chiefs and RSV AFSC functional managers.

2.1.8. Resource Management Office (RMO) - Compiles information, financial statements, subsistence accounting, and
prepares statistical reports. Performs market analysis and business-case analysis. Oversees Uniform Business Office
programs to include third party collection (TPC) activities, Medical Affirmative Claims (MAC) and Medical Service
Account (MSA) program management. Assists in manpower surveys and in developing manpower standards. Analyzes
workload and cost data to validate manpower requirements, and develops adjustments and projections to support
clinical or mission changes. Monitors the Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and the Unit Personnel Management
Roster (UPMR) to ensure accurate requirements, funding and the correct assignment of personnel. Identifies staffing
shortages and coordinates permanent or temporary assignment actions. Collects, maintains, prepares, and analyzes
MEPRS data or comparable workload accounting system. Utilizes DMHRSi timesheet tracking program. Prepares
budget estimates and financial plans. Monitors expenditures and obligations, analyzes financial reports and accounting
and workload reporting procedures and conducts internal audits. Coordinates MOUs, MOAs, Support Agreements and
Training Affiliations.

2.1.9. TRICARE Operations & Patient Administration (TOPA) - Performs and directs patient management functions.
Interprets communications, directives, and publications. Prepares health record copies and abstracts. Coordinates
release of information. Prepares, files, safeguards, transfers, audits and retires health records. Performs functions to
admit, discharge, and transfer patients. Compiles information and prepares reports and charts on bed occupancy,
staffing, medical care from civilian sources, and professional activities. Prepares patient-related correspondence and
special orders for patient assignment, reassignment, and aeromedical evacuation. Identifies and processes Line of Duty
(LOD) determinations. Monitors SNIAC (overseas clearance) program. Identifies, coordinates, and processes medical
conditions requiring Medical Evaluation Board/Integrated Disability Evaluation System (MEB/IDES) proceedings.
Verifies patient eligibility. Performs procedures for network referrals. Provides claims assistance and counseling to
beneficiaries. Manage Secretarial Designee Programs. Oversees Patient Squadron and Casualty Reporting programs.
Manages TRICARE Marketing, birth registration, medical in/outprocessing, TRICARE contract management ,
TRICARE enrollment and death processing.

2.1.10. Aeromedical Evacuation - Enplanes and deplanes patients. Receive regulated patients and provides continuing
and supportive care. Prepares cleared patients for flight. Briefs patients and accomplish appropriate documentation and
TRAC2ES inputs. Coordinates ground transport between MTF and aircraft. Manages aircrew alert schedules.

2.2. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the superintendent skill
level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in
training do his or her part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this
part of the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at the appropriate points in his/her career.




                                                             9
2.2.1. The 4A0XX Career shows general rank requirements for each training and career progression area.

                                                                            Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                             Rank        Special Duty Assignments (Examples)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School




Upgrade to Journeyman (5-Skill Level)
        Complete 4A051 CDC
        Certified in all STS Core Tasks
        Minimum 12 months UGT (9 months
         retraining)
        Complete all duty position training
         requirements

Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                      Military Training Instructor (MTI)
      Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service                                 Professional Military Education (PME)
       or SSgt selectee                                                              Instructor (ALS)
      Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt                               International Health Specialist (IHS)
       sew-on (AD only)
Upgrade to Craftsman (7-Skill Level)
      Complete 4A071 CDC                                                           Recruiter Duty
      Minimum 12 month UGT (6 months for                                           Schoolhouse Instructor
       retrainees)
      Minimum rank of SSgt
      Complete all core tasks Id’d at the 7-skill level
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)
        Must be a TSgt or TSgt select                                              Professional Military Education (PME)
        Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt                              Instructor (NCOA)
         sew-on (AD only)
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
Correspondence                                                                      MTF Functional Manager
        Must be a TSgt with at least 2 years TIG
        Must complete NCOA in residence (AD Only)
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                                                     First Sgt Duty
        Must be a MSgt or SMSgt                                                    MAJCOM Functional
        Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SMSgt
         sew-on (AD Only)
Upgrade to Superintendent                                                           Professional Military Education (PME)
(9-Skill Level)                                                                      Instructor (SNCOA)
         Minimum rank of SMSgt                                                     Special Duty Assignments to MAJCOM
                                                                                    Squadron Superintendent
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                                                        MDG Superintendent
(4A000)                                                                             Air Force Career Field Manager (CFM)
       Selected for promotion to the rank of CMSgt                                 Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCM)
       Attend Chief Leadership Course (CLC)                                        Chief, Medical Enlisted Force (CMEF)
       Developmental Education




                                                           10
2.2.2. Enlisted Education and Training Path.




                                                               EQUAL Assignment System                                   CHIEF’s GROUP



                                                  CCAF                                          ADVANCE DEGREE



                                           EQUAL PLUS                     SPECIAL DUTIES             OBTAIN
                                                                                                  9-SKILL LEVEL
                5-SKILL LEVEL                                                                                                 NOMINATIVE
                 CDC’s/OJT
                                                                                                                               POSITIONS
                                        7-SKILL LEVEL
                                         CDC’s/OJT                                                            IES
      3-SKILL LEVEL
        SCHOOL
                                                                         NCOA           SNCOA
                                  ALS                                                                                 CLC
                                                        BASE
            FTAC                                        PES


          0           2      4      6         8         10        12     14        16      18     20        22         24     26      28     30




                                                                                                           STRATEGIC LEVEL REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                  (MAJCOM & AIR STAFF LEADERS)

                                                                            OPERATIONAL LEVEL REQUIREMENTS
                          TACTICAL LEVEL REQUIREMENTS                     (SQ THROUGH BASE-LEVEL MANAGERS, LEADERS)
                          (WORKERS, TRAINERS & SUPERVISORS)




                                                                              11
2.2.3. In order to ensure appropriate career broadening opportunities the below table is a recommended rotation
schedule for 4A0s working at an MTF. These are only recommendations and deviations may be required to meet the
specific mission requirements of each facility.

2.2.4. Recommended 4A0X1 Rotation Schedule (exceptions may apply).

                                                                        AB – SrA > 18 months
            Aeromedical Staging Facility (ASF)                          SSgt – SMSgt > 36 months
                                                                        AB – SrA > 18 months
            Clinic/Ancillary Administrative Support                     SSgt – MSgt > 24 months
                                                                        AB – SrA > 36 months
            IM/IT                                                       SSgt – SMSgt > 48 months
            Informatics/Medical Office Management                       SSgt – MSgt > 36 months
                                                                        AB – SrA > 24 months
            Medical Readiness                                           SSgt – SMSgt > 36 months
                                                                        AB – SrA > 18 months
            Personnel and Administration                                SSgt – SMSgt > 24 months
                                                                        AB – SrA > 24 months
            Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)                         SSgt – SMSgt > 36 months
            Physical Evaluation Board Liaison Officer (PEBLO)           SSgt – SMSgt > 24 months
                                                                        AB – SrA > 18 months
            Resource Management                                         SSgt – SMSgt > 36 months
                                                                        AB – SrA > 18 months
            TRICARE Operations/Patient Administration                   SSgt – SMSgt > 36 months

2.2.5. Apprentice (3-Skill Level). Non-prior service and Air Reserve Component students in this specialty will
complete the Health Services Management Apprentice course in-residence at METC for award of the 3-skill level.
Once adopted, successful completion (no more than 2 attempts) and award of the National Healthcareer Association
(NHA) Certified Electronic Health Record Specialist (CEHRS) certification is mandatory for in-resident apprentice
students. After completion of this course and upon arrival at first duty assignment, the apprentice will work with a
trainer to enhance knowledge and skills. The apprentice will enter upgrade training using CDCs and task qualification
training to progress in the career field. Once certified on a task, the apprentice may perform the task unsupervised.
NOTE: Retrainees will upgrade via OJT and units are strongly recommended to contact the Health Services
Management Course for study material. However, if seats are available, course attendance is strongly recommended.

2.2.6. Journeyman (5-Skill Level). The individual must successfully complete the 5-skill level CDC before being
upgraded to the 5-skill level. Once upgraded, journeymen enter into continuation training to broaden their experience
base. Journeymen will attend the Airman Leadership School (ALS) after 48 months in the Air Force, or sooner, if
selected for promotion to Staff Sergeant. After ALS, journeymen can perform duties as trainers and supervisors and be
considered for appointment as unit trainers. To enhance their skills, they are encouraged to continue their education
toward a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree and complete a specialty certification to enhance their
skills and value as a 4A0.

2.2.7. Craftsman (7-Skill Level). A craftsman must successfully complete the 7-skill level CDC(s) before upgrade to
the 7-skill level. Once upgraded, a craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management positions, such as
noncommissioned officer in charge (NCOIC), supervisor, program manager, and task trainer or certifier. Craftsman
will attend the Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA) after selection for promotion to Technical Sergeant (AD
only). Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged.

2.2.8. Superintendent (9-Skill Level). Before attaining the 9-skill level, individuals must be promoted to Senior Master
Sergeant (AD only). A superintendent can expect to fill positions such as flight chief, superintendent, functional
manager, and various staff positions. Additional training in the areas of resources, leadership skills, and management
should be pursued through continuing education. Completion of higher degree programs is highly recommended.

2.2.9. Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) 4A000. Awarded after promotion to Chief Master Sergeant. A CEM can expect
to fill positions such as functional manager at various command levels, group or squadron superintendent, and flight


                                                           12
chief. Additional training in the areas of resources, leadership skills, and management should continue. Completion of
higher degree programs is highly recommended.

2.3. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the entire
spectrum of training requirements for the Health Services Management career field. The spectrum includes a strategy
for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce
duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. Training decisions are made during the 4A0X1
U&TW, held at the discretion of the 4A0X1 CFM.

2.3.1. Initial Skills. There were significant changes to the 3-skill level course for AFSC 4A0X1. Most notably was the
development and consolidation of an Army and Air Force training platform. Changes incorporated in the merged
program include training in such areas as TRAC2ES, MEDEVAC, ICD-9/10 Coding, and DHMRSi. These additions
support the joint doctrine principles fostering interoperability in the deployed environment. Students will continue to
interact in scenarios to enhance the realism and application of tasks. Students are awarded the 3-skill level upon
completion of the basic course, J8ABP4A031.

2.3.2. 5-Skill Level Upgrade Requirements. The 5-skill level upgrade training will include core tasks identified in the
STS. All training on core tasks must be completed and certified prior to award of the skill level. Training levels in the
CDC are adjusted, as required, to facilitate core task training and reasonable skill progression in accordance with the
STS. The 5-skill level will be awarded upon completion of the CDC, minimum of 12 months in upgrade training (9
months for retrainees), recommendation of the supervisor, and approval of unit commander.

2.3.3. 7-Skill Level Upgrade Requirements. The 7-skill level will be awarded upon completion of 7-skill level CDC(s),
minimum of 12 months in upgrade training (6 months for retrainees), and upgrade training time requirement,
recommendation of the supervisor, and approval of unit commander.

2.3.4. Proficiency Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements, which were not taught through initial
skills, supplemental, or upgrade training. The purpose of the continuation-training program is to provide additional
training exceeding minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions. MFMs
and MTF FMs must develop a continuation-training program that ensures individuals receive the necessary training at
the appropriate point in their career. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional training
requirements. AETC will assist in this continuation training development wherever possible, by providing instructional
system design/development expertise and media selection options.

2.3.5. RSV Training Requirements. Training is conducted through web-based courseware on specific tasks listed in the
STS. Tasks are identified with an ―R‖ in column 4D of the STS. Training tasks, which are identified in the RSV
database, are the catalyst for training program development (database located at
https://afms.csd.disa.mil/kc/main/kc_frame.asp?blnWhatsNew=True ). Airman Basic thru Chief Master Sergeant will
document training on AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, available in RSV training
database and document completion of training in current electronic training record. Additionally, readiness-related
training must be entered and tracked through MRDSS ULTRA. RSV training will also be supplemented with hands-on
skill training to reinforce preparedness.

2.3.6. Training for UTC Requirements. All 4A0X1s assigned to deployable UTCs will complete UTC-specific training,
field training, and other requirements as directed in AFI 41-106, Unit Level Management of Medical Readiness
Programs. Training for these tasks normally will be conducted via medical unit readiness training, field training,
readiness exercises, or annual ancillary unit training.

2.3.7. Other Training. Units will establish appropriate 4A0 training to meet unit-specific disaster response training.
Generally, this training should include duties associated with TRICARE Operations, Medical Contingency Response
Team Training, Aeromedical Evacuation, PRP, IM/IT, and general duties.

2.4. Community College of the Air Force. The CCAF offers a degree program specifically designed for the Health
Services Management specialty. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF
provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences (A.A.S.) Degree.




                                                           13
2.4.1. Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to completing an
associate degree, the 5-skill level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:

                                                                     Semester Hours
     Technical Education…………………………………………………………………………………………24
     Leadership, Management, and Military Studies……………………………………………………………...6
     Physical Education……………………………………………………………………………………………4
     General Education (3 semester hours each)…………………………………………………………………15
        Oral Communication
        Written Communication
        Mathematics
        Social Science
        Humanities
     Program Elective……………………………………………………………………………………………..15
     Total………………………………………………………..………………………….……………………..64

2.4.2. Technical Education (24 semester hours). A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core subject or course
must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from technical core or technical electives subjects or courses.
Requests to substitute comparable courses or to exceed specified semester hour values in any subject or course must be
approved in advance by Air University. Semester hours for skill level completion are applied as follows: 14 hours for
3-skill level, 8 hours for 5-skill level, and 4 hours for 7-skill level. The 2 remaining semester hours may be rolled over
into program electives.

2.4.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 semester hours). These include Professional military education
and/or civilian management courses.

2.4.4. Physical Education (4 semester hours). This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic Military Training.

2.4.5. General Education (15 semester hours). Applicable courses must meet the criteria for application of courses to
the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the definitions of applicable General Education
subject/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf.

2.4.6. Program Elective (15 semester hours). Program electives are satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects and courses, including natural science
courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not
applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the A.A.S. degree for
this specialty. CLEP and DANTES credits can be applied within the program elective block.

2.4.7. CCAF instructor certification Program. CCAF offers the CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program for
qualified instructors who teach CCAF collegiate-level credit awarding courses at a CCAF affiliated school. The CIC is
a professional credential that recognizes the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and
qualification required to teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching
experience. Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian and other service instructors are eligible for this certification.

2.4.8. To obtain more information concerning the CIC Program and program procedures, refer to the CCAF Campus
Affiliations Policies and Procedures Guidelines or contact the CCAF Credentialing Programs Flight at DSN 749-5020 /
(334) 649-5020 or E-mail ccaf.deal@maxwell.af.mil.

2.4.9. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is awarded for the
primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency based assessment process for trade skill certification at
one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

2.4.10. The Professional Manager Certification is a professional credential awarded by CCAF that formally recognizes
an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and management, as well as professional
accomplishments. The program provides a structured professional development track that supplements Enlisted
Professional Military Education and CFETP.

                                                            14
2.4.11. Air University Associate to Baccalaureate Cooperative Program (AU ABC Program) directs Airmen with
associate in applied science degrees from the CCAF to a collection of accredited "military friendly" colleges and
universities to consider when completing a four-year degree. The program maximizes the application of military career
education and training, and provides a multitude of online academic and support services for the enlisted member.

2.4.12. Additional Off-Duty Education. Off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is necessary
to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.

2.5. Certification Opportunities.

2.5.1. As of the publication date of this CFETP, the 4A0X1 career field does not have any officially sanctioned
certification programs. However, the programs and governing bodies listed below have been proposed in the next
update of AFI 41-104, Professional Board and National Certification Examinations. The long-term goal is for the AF
to pay tuition costs for each of these programs. Until such time, it is recommended for those interested in a certification
program to request reimbursement through their respective MTF or use their own one-time tuition assistance benefit.



                      Certifications                                              Governing Body

Certified Electronic Health Record Specialist (CEHRS)                National Healthcareer Association (NHA)

  Certified Medical Administrative Specialist (CMAS)                     American Medical Technologists
                                                                 American Association of Healthcare Administrative
     Certified Clinical Account Technician (CCA)
                                                                                   Management
    Certified Billing and Coding Specialist (CBCS)                   National Healthcareer Association (NHA)

         Associate Emergency Manager (AEM)                       International Association of Emergency Managers

         A+ Certification (required for SEI 260)                                     CompTIA

            Security + (required for SEI 264)                                        CompTIA



PART I, SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

3.1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of task and knowledge
requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in broad, general terms
and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The specific task and
knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and B of this CFETP.

3.2. Training Requirements.

3.2.1. Apprentice Level Training.

3.2.1.1. Specialty Qualifications:

3.2.1.2. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is desirable: general administrative procedures, medical terminology,
instructions, and directives, medical ethics, health records administration, office management methods, principles of
coding, and anatomy/physiology.

3.2.1.3. Education. Completion of high school.

3.2.1.4. Training. Completion of the Health Services Management Apprentice Course.

                                                            15
3.2.1.5. Experience. No other experience is required for the 3-skill level.

3.2.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. Apprentice level training is available at the 937 TRG, Fort Sam Houston, TX;
Course J8ABP4A031.

3.2.1.7. Implementation. Member is awarded the 3-skill level upon successful completion of Course J8ABP4A031 or
when proficiently trained on all 3-skill level tasks identified in the STS.

3.2.2. Journeyman Level Training.

3.2.2.1. Specialty Qualifications:

3.2.2.2. Knowledge. Individual must know general administrative procedures, medical terminology, publication
management procedures, advanced health records administration, patient movement procedures, application of ICD-CM
and CPT coding, basic anatomy and physiology, cost and budget estimating and training methods.

3.2.2.3. Education. Courses in anatomy and physiology, health, business administration, and computers are desirable.

3.2.2.4. Training. Individuals must successfully complete the 4A051 CDC before being upgraded to the 5-skill level in
this specialty.

3.2.2.5. Experience. Qualification in and possession of the 3-skill level in the 4A0 specialty is mandatory.

3.2.2.6. Training Sources and Resources. The CDCs for this course are developed by the 937 TRG, Fort Sam Houston,
TX, and is available through your training manager.

3.2.2.7. Implementation. The member’s commander awards the 5-skill level upon successful completion of the 5-skill
level CDC volumes, satisfactory performance during OJT and a minimum of 12-months time in upgrade training.

3.2.3. Craftsman Level Training.

3.2.3.1. Specialty Qualifications:

3.2.3.2. Knowledge. Individual must understand medical terminology, policy and directives, office management
practices, financial and manpower management, informatics/data analysis, training methods and TRICARE principles.
Additionally, individuals at the Craftsman level should understand the principles of Air Force Smart Operations for the
21 Century (AFSO21).

3.2.3.3. Education. Completion of CCAF degree in Health Care Management is highly desirable.

3.2.3.4. Training. Individuals must complete the 4A071 CDC before being upgraded to the 7-skill level in this
specialty. Members should complete applicable professional military education.

3.2.3.5. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4A051. Also, experience supervising a health services
management function and maintenance/management of healthcare-related systems.

3.2.3.6. Training Sources and Resources. The CDC(s) for this course are developed by the 937 TRG, Fort Sam
Houston, TX, and is available through your training manager.

3.2.3.7. Implementation. The member’s commander awards the 7-skill level upon successful completion of 7-skill level
CDC, satisfactory performance during OJT and a minimum of 12-months time in upgrade training.

3.2.4. Superintendent Level Training.

3.2.4.1. Specialty Qualifications:



                                                            16
3.2.4.2. Knowledge. Individuals must know medical service administration theory and techniques, anatomy and
physiology, medical terminology, medical ethics, resource management, and management and supervision of personnel.
Additionally, individuals at the Superintendent level should fully understand and be able to apply the principles of
AFSO21.

3.2.4.3. Education. Completion of CCAF degree in Health Care Management is highly recommended.

3.2.4.4. Training. Completion of duty position training requirements is mandatory for award of the 9-skill level.

3.2.4.5. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4A071. Also, experience managing a health services
management function, associated healthcare-related systems and personnel.

3.2.4.6. Training Sources/Resources. Qualification training is provided by certified trainers using appropriate local and
other training materials. Use of exportable and contract training is encouraged when available.

3.2.4.7. Implementation. 9-skill level will be awarded upon promotion to SMSgt.

3.3. Special Experience Identifiers (SEI).

3.3.1. SEI 260, Information Assurance Technical Level 1. Requires (1) assignment to perform information assurance
technical support at the computing environment level (example: Client Support Administrator); (2) certification as
either A+, Network+, or System Security Certified Practitioner (SSCP); (3) recommendation of unit commander. There
are no minimum grade or skill level requirements to be awarded the SEI.

3.3.2. SEI 264, Information Assurance Technical Level 2. Requires (1) assignment to perform information assurance
technical support at the network environment level (example: Infrastructure Technician); (2) certification as either
GIAC Security Essentials Certification (GSEC), Security +, Security Certified Network Professional (SCNP), or System
Security Certified Practitioner (SSCP); (3) recommendation of unit commander. There are no minimum grade or skill
level requirements to be awarded the SEI.

3.3.3. SEI 316, AETC Technical Instructor (TI) - Award requires completion of one of the following courses: Basic
Instructor Course (G, J, L, V, X) 3AIRTXXXX OB1A, Military Training Instructor L3ALR8B000, Military Training
Leader L3ALR8B100, Enlisted Professional Military Education Instructor Course MESC003 or 12 months of instructor
experience following formal certification and supervisor’s recommendation.

3.3.4. SEI 325, Medical Readiness. Requires minimum grade of E-5, completion of the Medical Readiness
Management course, J3OZR4XXX-00BD or Battlefield Medical Operations Planning (BMOP) course B3OZY-9300-
003; and 12 months of experience. Approval authority for award of this SEI is MAJCOM or higher.

3.3.5. SEI 386, Instructional Materials Writer/Manager - Requires 6 months of experience in preparation or revision of
nonresident training materials and completion of the Technical Writer Nonresident Training Materials course
3AIR75200-015.

3.3.6. SEI 451, Associate International Health Specialist (IHS) – Requires qualification and proficiency in a core
medical specialty. Minimum 2/2 Defense Language Proficiency Test score in a language other than English. Eight
cumulative weeks of deployed operational health services support experience in overseas expeditionary setting
appropriate to the individual’s foreign language proficiency in support of a contingency or peacetime security
cooperation event. Completion of a regional and cultural awareness orientation course at the USAF Special Operations
School appropriate to the individual’s foreign language proficiency. Completion of the web-based USAF International
Health Specialist Orientation Course. Completion of the Joint Forces Staff College web-based or in-residence Joint
Planner Orientation Course (JPOC). The Contingency/Wartime Planning Course (MCADRE002, PDS Code 82U), the
Joint Medical Planners Course (J5OZO9000 003, PDS Code HX6), and other formal education and/or training in
joint/interagency operational planning may substitute for this requirement as the IHS Program Office deems acceptable.
Completion of the NATO Civil-Military Coordination Basic Course. The Joint Special Operations University Joint
Civil-Military Operations Campaign Planning Workshop or Special Operations Forces Interagency Collaboration
Course, the UN Civil-Military Coordination Course, or other formal education and/or training in civil-military
operations may substitute for this requirement as the IHS Program Office deems acceptable. Completion of the Military

                                                           17
Medical Humanitarian Assistance Course. Combined Humanitarian Assistance and Response Training, the USAID
Joint Humanitarian Operations Course, international portions of public health degree programs, and other formal
education and/or training in humanitarian assistance and disaster response may substitute for this requirement as the
IHS Program Office deems acceptable. The IHS Program Office is the sole approval authority for award of this special
experience identifier.

3.3.7. SEI 463, Medical Personal Reliability Program (PRP) - Requires (1) successful completion of Certification PRP
training; (2) 12 months experience working in the PRP clinic; (3) SGP recommendation and (4) Group Commander
approval.

3.3.8. Refer to the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (found on the ASK AFPC website) for procedures to
award and update personnel data systems with applicable SEI.

PART I, SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

4. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired training from being
developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource
constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in
this section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. At a minimum, perform
an annual review of resource constraints affecting training and amend this section if needed. At this time there are no
training constraints.

4.1. Supervisors should report known resource constraints that prevent personnel from completing the mandatory
training requirements specified in this plan to their unit training manager. The authority for requesting waivers is AFI
36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted).

4.1.1. In the report, provide a brief description of the resource constraints that adversely affect your training program
and include the impact this constraint has or will have on training. Identify the specific STS task code(s) affected.
Also, provide a brief description of what you need to resolve the problem, including expenses, the corrective actions
taken or to be taken, and the estimated completion date.

4.1.2. If the constraint can be resolved at the local level, the report will be coordinated with the Unit 4A0X1 Functional
Manager. If the impact affects unit war skill requirements, the report will be coordinated with the group commander. If
the constraint needs MAJCOM support, forward the report through your group commander to the 4A0 MFM.
Constraints that cannot be resolved at the unit or MAJCOM level nor have a long term estimated completion date must
be forwarded to the 4A0X1 AFCFM as a request for waiver or deferment of CFETP requirements.

PART I, SECTION E - TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE

This section not used.




                                                            18
PART II, SECTION A – SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation. The STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the 3-skill level Education and
Training Apprentice course with the class beginning 20120924 and graduating 20121114. The 4A0X1 CFETP dated
Oct 07 will continue to be used to track 5-skill level and 7-skill level duty tasks until the revised CFETP is released.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, the STS:

2.1. Lists in Column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks, knowledge, and technical
references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3, 5, and 7-skill level. Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies
the core task requirements. Core task requirements are met after individuals successfully complete the appropriate
upgrade training for their skill level; the 3-skill level course (J8ABP4A031, Health Services Management Apprentice
Course); the entire 4A051 CDC and OJT and the entire 4A071 CDC and OJT.

2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge training
requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician qualifications, if available. Task
certification must show a certification/completed date.

2.3. Contains the proficiency code key (Columns 4A, 4B and 4C) used to indicate the level of training and knowledge
provided by resident training and the CDC. Training for these tasks is achieved through OJT and completion of
appropriate CDC. Column 4D identifies Readiness Skills Verification (RSV) Tasks. Primary methods are web-based
training and frequency is on a 20-month cycle. Units are encouraged to incorporate hands-on training to supplement
and verify proficiency.

2.4. The STS serves as a JQS for OJT when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, and used according
to AFI 36-2201. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:

2.4.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training in accordance with AFI 36-2201. Identify duty
position requirements by circling the subparagraph number next to the task statement. As a minimum, complete the
following columns in Part 2 of the CFETP: Start Date, Training Completed, Trainee Initials, Trainer Initials, Certifier
Initials (if applicable). An AFJQS may be used in lieu of Part II of the CFETP only upon approval of the AFCFM.
NOTE: The AFCFM may supplement these minimum documentation procedures as needed or deemed necessary for
their career field.

2.4.2. Converting to the new CFETP. Transcribing documentation to a new CFETP is an administrative function, not
a re-evaluation of training. Upon publication of a new CFETP, use the following procedures to transcribe.

2.4.2.1. For tasks previously certified and still required in the current duty position, enter the current date in the
completion column, trainee initials in the trainee column, and the current task certifier or supervisor/trainer initials in
the trainer column.

2.4.2.2. For tasks previously certified but not required in the current duty position, transcribe only the previous
certification dates (no initials). If the task later becomes required in the duty position, recertify using current dates and
initials.

2.4.2.3. Annotate the AF Form 623a, (for example, ―I certify the information contained in the CFETP dated XX was
transcribed to the CFETP dated XX, and the trainee was given the superseded CFETP.‖ Signed and dated by the
supervisor and trainee).

2.4.3. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the supervisor identifies STS training
references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and ensures, at a minimum, the trainees cover mandatory items
in the Enlisted Classification Directory. For two-time CDC course exam failures, see AFI 36-2201for specific
instructions. NOTE: Career knowledge must be documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.

2.4.4. Decertification. When an Airman is found to be unqualified on a task previously certified for his or her position,
the supervisor utilizes the decertification feature found in AFTR. Then appropriate remarks are entered on the AF Form
623a, documenting the reason for decertification. See AFI 36-2201 for specific instructions.

                                                              19
2.4.5. Training Standard. Trainees are trained, evaluated, and certified to the go/no-go level. Go means the individual
can perform the task without assistance and meets requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures.
Supervisors and superintendents will manage this process by assessing 4A051 qualifications.

2.4.5.1. Trainers must be recommended by their supervisors, qualified to perform the task being trained and have
completed the Air Force Training Course.

2.4.5.2. Certifiers must be at least a Staff Sergeant, capable of evaluating the task being certified, be someone other than
the trainer, and complete the Air Force Training Course. Possession of at least a 7-skill level is desired, but not
required.

2.5. The Training Standard is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests are developed at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron by
SNCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. Questions are based upon study references listed in
the WAPS catalog. WAPS is only applicable to AD forces.

3. Recommendations. Identify inadequacies and recommended changes to this training standard through channels to
the 382 TRS/XYBC, 3038 William Hardee Road, Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234 to report your findings.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                               THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                                       Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                       Surgeon General

Attachment
STS: Health Service Management (4A0X1)




                                                            20
                                Section A - Health Services Management (4A0X1) STS
Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)         Initials (Written)        SSAN (Last 4)

                                          Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                   N/I
N/I                                                                               N/I
N/I                                                                               N/I
N/I                                                                               N/I
N/I                                                                               N/I
N/I                                                                               N/I
                                                           QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                              Proficiency Code Key
                                                  Definition: The individual
                                 Scale Value

TASK PERFORMANCE                      1           Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most parts of the task.
      LEVELS                                      (Extremely Limited)
                                      2           Can do most parts of the task. Needs help on only the hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
                                      3           Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of the completed work. (Competent)
                                      4           Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (Highly
                                                  Proficient)

  TASK KNOWLEDGE                      a           Can name parts, tools, and simple tasks about the task. (Nomenclature)
   LEVELS (Note 1)
                                      b           Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)

                                      c           Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (Operating Principles)


                                      d           Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)

SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE                     A           Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
   LEVELS (Note 2)
                                      B           Can identify relationships of basic facts and state general principles about the subject (Principles)

                                      C           Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)

                                      D           Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
Note 1: A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

Note 2: A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course/CDC. If used after a previous scale value has
been attained/certified, the applicable proficiency level is still required to be validated/certified.

* This mark, in column 1, represents those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime environment. These tasks will be taught
in the 3-skill level course in a streamlined training environment.

Note 3: In block 2, the ―3‖, ―5‖, or ―7‖ mark is used to indicate core task requirements in an identified 3-, 5-, or 7- skill level for upgrade training.

R This mark, in column D, indicates RSV training requirements every 20 months
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code in the 3-skill level course column are
trained during wartime.



                                                                             21
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill         Readiness
                                                                                                                                    Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                             Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                    Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                             Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                        /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T


GENERAL
1. The Health Services
Management Specialty TR: AFI
91-301, Enlisted Classification
Directory, AFOSHSTD 91-8,
Health Services Management
CFETP (PREVIOUSLY: 1. )
1.1. The 4A0X1 CFETP                                                                       A        -            -



1.2. Duties for 4A0X1                                                                      A        -            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 1.1.)


1.3. Progression in career ladder                                                          A        -            B
4A0X1 (PREVIOUSLY: 1.2.)


1.4. AFOSH Standards for 4A0X1                                                             A        -            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 1.3.)


2. The Air Force Medical Service
TR: AFPD 41-1; AFMS Flight
Path Implementation Guide,
(pending validation) HQ AF/SG
website. (PREVIOUSLY: 2. )
2.1. Mission, objectives,                                                                  A        B            -
organization, development, and
function of the USAF Medical
Service (PREVIOUSLY: 2.1.)
2.2. Function and organization of                                                          A        B            -
Air Force Medical Treatment
Facilities (MTFs)
(PREVIOUSLY: 2.2.)
2.3. AFMS History                                                                          A        -            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 2.3.)


3. Medical Terminology TR: The
Dean Vaughn Learning System -
Medical Terminology 350
Learning Guide. DCM Systems
Incorporated, 6 hours.
Videocassettes, ISBN 0-914901-
12-5 (PREVIOUSLY: 3.)
3.1. Root, prefix, and suffix of                                                           A        B            -                   R
terms (PREVIOUSLY: 3.1.)


3.2. Common diagnostic terms                                                               A        B            -                   R
(PREVIOUSLY: 3.2.)




                                                                       22
1. Tasks Knowledge and            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References              Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                             A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                      3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                    Skills
                                                                                      Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                             Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                    Tasks
                                            Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                             ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                             Frequency
                                                                                         C        C      O     C      O
                                            Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                    plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                         S        C      T     C      T

4. Anatomy and Physiology TR:
Henry Gray. Anatomy Descriptive
and Surgical. St Louis MO:
Mosby-Year Book, Inc., IBN 0-
8151-3851-2 (PREVIOUSLY: 4. )
4.1. Major body systems and                                                              A        B            -                     R
organs (PREVIOUSLY: 4.1.)


4.2. Anatomical relationships                                                            A        B            -                     R
(PREVIOUSLY: 4.2.)


5. Interpersonal Relations TR:
The Customer Service Challenge,
AMR Training Group
PREVIOUSLY: 5.)
5.1. Practice Exceptional                                                               2b              2b           2b
customer service skills
(PREVIOUSLY: 5.1.)

5.2. Communication courtesy                                                              -        B            B
(PREVIOUSLY: 5.2.)


6. Official Communications TR:
AFH 33-337, AFMANs 33-326,
37-123 (PREVIOUSLY: 6.)

6.1. Prepare draft and finalize                                                          1a             b            b
official correspondence
(PREVIOUSLY: 6.1.)

6.2. Complete coordination and                                                           -              b            b
distribution process
(PREVIOUSLY: 6.2.)

7. Publication and Information
Source TR: Air Force E-
Publishing (PREVIOUSLY: 7. )

7.1. Use e-publishing                                                                    1a              -               -
(PREVIOUSLY: 7.1.)


8. Knowledge of Self Inspection                                                          -        A            B
Program and applicable systems
TR: AFI 44-119

9. Microsoft Office Excel,
PowerPoint, Word Applications
TR: Most current versions of
Microsoft Office Application
Handbooks and IT E-Learning
found on the Air Force Portal
TR: See PART II, SECTION D –
TRAINING COURSE INDEX of
the CFETP




                                                                     23
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

9.1. Utilize Microsoft Office                                                              1a              -               -
Suite


9.2. Utilize Microsoft Excel                                                               1a              -               -



9.2.1. Complete "Getting Started                                                           -              2b               -
with Excel IT E-Learning Course"
(Latest available version)

9.2.2. Utilize Advanced Data                                                               -               -           2b
Management in Excel IT E-
Learning Course (Latest available
version)
9.2.3. Complete Analyzing Data                                                             -               -           2b
in Excel IT E-Learning Course
(Latest available version)

9.3. Complete Getting Started                                                              -              2b               -
with PowerPoint IT E-Learning
Course (Latest Available Version)

9.4. Complete Working with                                                                 -               -           2b
Documents in Word IT E-
Learning Course (Latest available
version)
9.5. Complete Getting Started                                                              -               -           2b
with Access IT E-Learning
Course (Latest Available Version)

10. Contracting Officer
Representative (COR) TR: Air
Force Federal Acquisition
Regulation Supplement
(AFFARS) Part 36
10.1. Performance Work                                                                     -        -            B
Statements


11. Privacy Act/FOIA Monitor,                                                              A        B            B
TR: DoD 5400.11-R, DoD
Privacy Program, AFI 33-332,
Privacy Act
12. Armed Forces Health
Longitudinal Technology
Application - Theater (AHLTA-
T)/ (TMIP)
12.1. Utilize TMIP                                                                        1b               -               -



12.2. Overview OF TMIP                                                                     -        B            -                     R




                                                                       24
1. Tasks Knowledge and               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                 Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                                A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                         3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                       Skills
                                                                                         Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                                Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                       Tasks
                                               Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                                ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                                Frequency
                                                                                            C        C      O     C      O
                                               Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                       plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                            S        C      T     C      T


HEALTH CARE
OPTIMIZATION

13. Population Health TR: DoD
Population Health Improvement
Plan and Guide, A Guide to
Population Health; AFI 44-171;
AFPAM 44-155 (PREVIOUSLY:
9.)
13.1. Basic Facts of Population                                                             A        -            B
Health (PREVIOUSLY: 9.1.)


13.2. Critical Success Factors of                                                           A        -            B
Population Health
(PREVIOUSLY: 9.2.)

13.2.1 Demand Management                                                                    -        A            B



13.2.2. Capacity Management                                                                 -        A            B



13.3. Roles and Responsibilities                                                            A        B            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 9.3.)


14. Access To Care (ATC),
Scheduling and Appointing, and
Provider Template TR: AFIs 41-
210, 41-115, 48-123, 33-364;
AFMAN 33-363, AFH 41-114,
MHS Guide to Access Success;
TRICARE Policy Manual;
CHCSer's Manual; AHLTA
User's Manual; AFMS Policy on
Access to Care; AFMS ATC
Functions Guidance
(PREVIOUSLY: 10. )
14.1. TRICARE ATC Standards          3/5/7                                                  A        A            B
and ATC Categories
(PREVIOUSLY: 10.3.1.)

14.2. Priority of Care and Patient   3/5/7                                                  A        A            -
Category Status (PREVIOUSLY:
10.3.2.)

14.3. Scheduling Administration                                                             -        A            B



14.4. Schedule/Book                                                                        2b              b                -
Appointments Utilizing ATC
Standards (PREVIOUSLY:
10.3.3.)




                                                                        25
1. Tasks Knowledge and             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References               Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                              A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                       3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                     Skills
                                                                                       Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                              Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                     Tasks
                                             Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                              ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                              Frequency
                                                                                          C        C      O     C      O
                                             Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                     plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                          S        C      T     C      T

14.5. Prepare Provider Templates                                                          1a             b                -
(PREVIOUSLY: 10.1.)


14.6. Provider Template Changes                                                           A        -            B
(PREVIOUSLY: 10.2.)


15. Reception Desk TR: AFIs
41-210, 41-115, AFH 41-114, 41-
120, 44-171, 33-332, 31-501;
DoD 5210.42R_AFMAN 10-
3902; DODI 6010.15-M; CHCS
User’s Manual; AHLTA User's
Manual; HIPAA Privacy and
Security Rules; Customer Service
(Impressions) (PREVIOUSLY:
11. )
15.1. Receive and Check Patients                                                          1a             b                -
into Clinic using Automated
Systems (PREVIOUSLY: 11.1.)

15.2. Verify/Update Patient                                                               1a             b                -
Demographics (PREVIOUSLY:
11.2.)

15.3. Verify/Update Other Health                                                          1a             b                -
Insurance (PREVIOUSLY: 11.3.)


 15.4. Identify Injury/Accident                                                           1a             2b               -
Information
Electronically/Manually
(PREVIOUSLY: 11.5.)
15.5. Convalescent leave process                                                          A        -            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 31.3.)


15.6. Generate Provider Roster                                                            -              b                -



15.7. Display Patient                                                                     -              b                -
Appointments


15.8. Add Patient to Wait List                                                            -              b                -



15.9 Accomplish End-of-Day                                                                1a             b                -
Processing (PREVIOUSLY:
11.4.)

15.10. Request/Recharge Patient                                                           -              b                -
Record




                                                                      26
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

16. Coding TR: International
Classification of Diseases, Ninth
Revision, Clinical Modification
(ICD-9/10-CM); Ambulatory
Data Module (ADM) Coding
Guidelines; Current Procedure
Terminology (CPT®) Coding
Guideline; Healthcare Common
Procedure Coding System
(HCPCS); DoD Coding
Guidelines; Military Health
System Coding Guidance:
Professional Services and
Specialty Coding Guidelines;
Medical Dictionary
(PREVIOUSLY: 12. )
16.1. Coding Manuals                                                                       A        B            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 12.1.)


16.2. Coding Taxonomy                                                                      A        B            -



16.3. Coding Patient Encounters                                                            A        B            -



17. Individual Medical Readiness
TR: AFIs 41-210, 44-170, 44-171,
48-123, 33-332, 31-501, 33-363,
33-364; DoD 5210.42R_AFMAN
10-3902; DODI 6010.15-M;
AFPAM 44-155; USAF PHA
Guide; AFRC PHA Guide (AFRC
Only); PIMR User's Guide;
CHCS User's Manual; AHLTA
User's Manual; MHS Guide to
Access Success (PREVIOUSLY:
13. )
17.1. Purpose of the Preventive                                                            A        B            -
Health Assessment (PHA)
(PREVIOUSLY: 13.1.)

17.2. Retrieve Relevant                                                                    a               -               -
Documentation to Support PHA
(PREVIOUSLY: 13.2.)

17.3. Review PIMR for PHA                                                                  a               -               -
Process (PREVIOUSLY: 13.3.)


17.4. Profile Usage – AF Form                                                              A        -            -
422 (PREVIOUSLY: 13.4.)




                                                                       27
1. Tasks Knowledge and            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References              Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                             A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                D
                                                                                      3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill         Readiness
                                                                                                                                  Skills
                                                                                      Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                           Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                  Tasks
                                            Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                             ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                           Frequency
                                                                                         C        C      O     C      O
                                            Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                        /Method
                                                    plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                         S        C      T     C      T

18. Health Informatics TR: AFI
44-119; A Guide to Population
Health; MHS Guide to Access
Success; CHCS User's Manual;
WWR User's Manual
(PREVIOUSLY: 14.)
18.1. ATC Reports                                                                        -        A            B
(PREVIOUSLY: 14.2.)


18.2. Utilize Care ATC Report                                                            b               -           c
(PREVIOUSLY: 14.1.)


18.3. TRICARE Operations                                                                 -        A            B
Center Tools (PREVIOUSLY:
14.3.)

18.4. Biometrics Data Quality                                                            -        A            B
Assurance Service (BDQAS)
(PREVIOUSLY: 14.4.)

18.5. ADM Completion Reports                                                             -        A            B
and Compliance (PREVIOUSLY:
14.5.)

18.6. CHCS Adhoc Reports                                                                 -        A            B



18.7 Identify/retrieve business                                                          a               -           b
data from Automated Systems.
(PREVIOUSLY: 45.10.)

TRICARE
OPERATIONS AND
PATIENT
ADMINISTRATION
(TOPA)
19. TRICARE Health Plan TR:
41-101, 41-115, AFH 41-114,
DoD 6010.47M, TRICARE
Policy Guidelines
(PREVIOUSLY: 15.)
19.1. Evolution of TRICARE                                                               A        B            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 15.1.)


19.2. TRICARE Program             5                                                      A        B            -
Features


19.3. TRICARE On-line                                                                    A        B            -
Operations (PREVIOUSLY:
15.6.)




                                                                     28
1. Tasks Knowledge and             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References               Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                              A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                       3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                     Skills
                                                                                       Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                              Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                     Tasks
                                             Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                              ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                              Frequency
                                                                                          C        C      O     C      O
                                             Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                     plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                          S        C      T     C      T

19.4. Assist beneficiaries with                                                           -              b                -
TRICARE benefits/patient travel
(PREVIOUSLY: 15.7.)

19.5. National Defense                                                                    -        A            -
Authorization Act (NDAA)
benefit changes (PREVIOUSLY:
15.8.)
20. Beneficiary Counseling
Assistance Coordinator (BCAC)
TR: DoD 6010.47M, TRICARE
Policy Guidelines; AFI 41-115
(PREVIOUSLY: 16.)
20.1. Roles and Responsibilities                                                          A        B            -
of BCAC (PREVIOUSLY: 16.1.)


20.2. Marketing TRICARE                                                                   -        A            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 16.2.)


21. Debt Collection Assistance
Officer (DCAO) TR: DoD
6010.47M, TRICARE Policy
Guidelines; AFI 41-115
(PREVIOUSLY: 17.)
21.1. Roles and Responsibilities                                                          A        B            -
of DCAO (PREVIOUSLY: 17.1.)


22. Health Plan Analysis TR:
AFMAM, M2 Users Guide,
MEPRS Manual, MCFAS
(PREVIOUSLY: 18.)
22.1. Importance of data driven                                                           -        A            -
decisions (PREVIOUSLY: 18.1.)


22.2. Sources of health plan                                                              -        B            -
information (PREVIOUSLY:
18.2.)

22.3. Resource Sharing                                                                    -        A            -



22.3.1. Veterans Administration                                                           -        A            B
agreements (PREVIOUSLY:
18.3.1.)

22.3.2. Managed Care and other                                                            -        A            B
local support contractor
agreements (PREVIOUSLY:
18.3.2.)
23. Medical In/Out- Processing
TR: AFI 41-210 (PREVIOUSLY:
19.)




                                                                      29
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

23.1. Importance of                                                                        A        -            -
in/outprocessing (PREVIOUSLY:
19.1.)

23.2. Conduct medical                                                                      -              b                -
in/outprocessing for all
beneficiaries (PREVIOUSLY:
19.2.)
24. Overall Outpatient Health
Records Management TR: AFIs
33-364, 41-210, AFMANS 33-
363, and MRTR2 Users Guide
(PREVIOUSLY: 20.)
24.1. Prepare, update, and          3/5/7                                                 2b              b                -
maintain outpatient medical
records (PREVIOUSLY: 20.1.)

24.2. Records retirement process                                                           A        B            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 20.3.)


24.3. Complete outpatient records                                                          -              b            c
retirement process
(PREVIOUSLY: 20.4.)

24.4. Quality control/Medical                                                              A        -            B
records management


24.5. Medical Record Review                                                                A        B            -
Function


24.6. DoD policy on custody and                                                            A        B            -
control of medical records
(PREVIOUSLY: 20.7.)

25. Perform Duties associated
with Outpatient Records TR: AFIs
33-364, 41-210, AFMANS 33-
363, 37-139, MRTR2 Users
Guide (PREVIOUSLY: 21.)
25.1. In/Outprocessing functions                                                           -        B            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 21.1.)


25.2. Perform In/Outprocessing                                                            2b               -               -
functions (PREVIOUSLY: 21.2.)


25.3. Retrieve diagnostic reports                                                         2b               -               -
and treatment profiles
(PREVIOUSLY: 21.3.)

25.4. Perform annual inventory                                                            2b              b                -
functions (PREVIOUSLY: 21.4.)




                                                                       30
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

25.5. Research, file, and/or                                                              2b              b                -
distribute medical documents
(PREVIOUSLY: 21.5.)

25.6. Perform medical record                                                              2b              b                -
tracking functions
(PREVIOUSLY: 21.6.)

26. Service Treatment Record                                                               A        B            B
(STR) Disposition Processing
TR: AFI 41-210; Revised STR
Disposition Plan for Retiring and
Separating Airmen
26.1. Perform STR process                                                                  1a             2b           2c
functions TR: 41-210 Revised
STR disposition plan for retiring
and separating airman
27. Release of Information and
Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) TR:
AFI 33-332, 41-210, DoD
6025.18.R (PREVIOUSLY: 25.)
27.1. Release of information        3/5/7                                                  A        B            B
policies, AFI 33-332
(PREVIOUSLY: 25.1.)

27.2. HIPAA                         3/5/7                                                  A        B            B
requirements/training
(PREVIOUSLY: 25.2.)

27.3. Perform sequestered                                                                  1a             b            c
medical records functions
(PREVIOUSLY: 25.3.)

28. Referral Management TR:
AFI 41-210, Referral
Management Center Guide
(PREVIOUSLY: 26.)
28.1. Referral management                                                                  A        B            -
process (PREVIOUSLY: 26.1.)


28.2. Verify contact information                                                          2b              b                -
on consults (PREVIOUSLY:
26.2.)

28.3. Track and route referrals                                                            a              b                -
(PREVIOUSLY: 26.3.)


28.4. Attach supplementary                                                                 1a             b                -
documentation to referrals
(PREVIOUSLY: 26.4.)

28.5. Referral instructions to                                                             A        -            -
beneficiaries (PREVIOUSLY:
26.5.)




                                                                       31
1. Tasks Knowledge and                2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                  Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                                 A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                          3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                        Skills
                                                                                          Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                                 Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                        Tasks
                                                Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                                 ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                                 Frequency
                                                                                             C        C      O     C      O
                                                Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                        plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                             S        C      T     C      T

29. Eligibility and Patient
Registration TR: AFI 41-210, 41-
115, AFH 41-114
(PREVIOUSLY: 27.)
29.1. Verify Eligibility              3/5/7                                                 2b              b                -
(PREVIOUSLY: 27.1.)


29.2. Register patients (Mini/Full)                                                         2b              b                -           R
(PREVIOUSLY: 27.2.)


29.3. Manage patient                                                                         -               -           c
registrations


30. Aeromedical Evacuation
(AE) Patient Movement TR: AFI
41-301, 41-305, AFI 41-307,
AFJI 41-315, TRAC2ES User’s
Documentation and CBT
(PREVIOUSLY: 28. )
30.1. Patient movement process                                                               A        B            B                     R
(PREVIOUSLY: 28.1.)


30.2. Patient classification and                                                             A        B            -                     R
precedence (PREVIOUSLY:
28.2.)

30.3. Prepare mission                                                                        1a             b                -           R
documentation (DD Forms 601,
602, etc.) (PREVIOUSLY: 28.3.)

30.4. Initiate patient movement                                                              -              b                -           R
requests (PMR) (PREVIOUSLY:
28.4.)

30.5. Perform anti-hijacking                                                                 1a             b                -           R
procedures for patients and
baggage (PREVIOUSLY: 28.5.)

30.6. TPMRC and GPMRC                                                                        A        B            -                     R
Roles and Responsibilities


31. TRANSCOM Regulating and
Command & Control Evacuation
System (TRAC2ES)

31.1. Utilize TRAC2ES TR:                                                                    1a             2b               -           R
TRAC2ES CBT and User Guides


31.2. Transport Litter Patients                                                              -              2b               -           R




                                                                         32
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

31.3. MEDEVAC (Army, Rotary                                                                A        B            -                     R
wing medical evacuation)


31.4. Initiate 9 Line Medevac                                                              1a              -               -           R
Request Form


32. Medical Evaluation Boards
(MEB) TR: AFI 36-3212, 41-210,
48-123, 10-203, DES Pilot
Operations Manual, MPFM 05-05
(PREVIOUSLY: 29.)
32.1. MEB technician                                                                       A        B            B
responsibilities (PREVIOUSLY:
29.1.)

32.2. Physical Evaluation Board                                                            A        B            B
Liaison Officer (PEBLO)
responsibilities (PREVIOUSLY:
29.2.)
32.3. Medical Board procedures                                                             A        B            B
(PREVIOUSLY: 29.3.)


32.4. Integrated Disability                                                                A        B            B
Evaluation System (IDES)
Overview TR: AFI 48-123; AFI
36-3212; AFI 10-203; DES Pilot
Operations Manual; Disability
Portion of NDAA 2008
Implementation Guidance
32.5. MEB/IDES Tracking Log                                                                -        B            B
Functions (local database &
Veteran's Tracking Application
(VTA) TR: AFI 41-210, DES
Pilot Operations Manual; VTA
Training Guide
32.6. Perform Medical Board                                                                -               -           2b
procedures


32.7. Review in-lieu of (RILO)                                                             A        B            B
board procedures
(PREVIOUSLY: 29.4.)

32.7.1. Perform Review in-lieu of                                                          -               -           2b
(RILO) board procedures


32.8. Temporary Disability                                                                 A        B            B
Retirement List
(TDRL)/Permanent Disability
Retirement List (PDRL)
procedures (PREVIOUSLY:
29.5.)
32.8.1. Perform TDRL/PDRL                                                                  -               -           2b
procedures



                                                                       33
1. Tasks Knowledge and             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References               Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                              A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                       3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                     Skills
                                                                                       Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                              Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                     Tasks
                                             Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                              ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                              Frequency
                                                                                          C        C      O     C      O
                                             Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                     plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                          S        C      T     C      T

32.9. Assignment Limitation                                                               A        B            B
Code C procedures to include
deployment/PCS waiver process
(PREVIOUSLY: 29.6.)
32.9.1. Fitness For                                                                       A        B            B
Duty/Assignment Limitation
Code C Fast Track TR: AFI 41-
210; AF/SG Policy Memorandum
Assignment Limitation Code Fast
Track Program Aug 2008
32.9.2. Perform ALC-C                                                                     -               -           2b
procedures


32.9.3. Deployment Working                                                                A        B            B
Group (DAWG)


32.10. Patient Squadron                                                                   A        B            -
Management (PREVIOUSLY:
29.7.)

33. Line of Duty (LOD)
Determinations TR: AFI 36-2910,
41-210 (PREVIOUSLY: 30.)

33.1. Perform LOD determination                                                           1a             2b           c               R
procedures (PREVIOUSLY:
30.1.)

34. Quarters Management TR:
AFI 41-210


34.1. Quarters notification                                                               A        B            -
procedures (PREVIOUSLY:
31.1.)

34.2. Complete quarters                                                                   -              b                -
notification (PREVIOUSLY:
31.2.)

35. Secretarial Designee Program
TR: AFI 41-115, 41-210
(PREVIOUSLY: 32.)

35.1. Manage SECDES program                                                               -              b            c
(PREVIOUSLY: 32.1.)


36. Special Needs Identification
and Assignment Coordination
(SNIAC) process TR: AFI 41-
210, 41-301 (PREVIOUSLY: 33.)
36.1. Manage Family Member                                                                -              b                -
Relocation Clearance (FMRC)
process (PREVIOUSLY: 33.1.)




                                                                      34
1. Tasks Knowledge and               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                 Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                                A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                         3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                       Skills
                                                                                         Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                                Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                       Tasks
                                               Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                                ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                                Frequency
                                                                                            C        C      O     C      O
                                               Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                       plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                            S        C      T     C      T

36.2. Facility Determination                                                                -        B            -
Inquiries (FDI) (PREVIOUSLY:
33.2.)

36.2.1. Perform Facility                                                                    -               -           b
Determination Inquiries (FDI)


36.3. Assignment Limitation                                                                 -        B            -
Code Q procedures
(PREVIOUSLY: 33.3.)

36.3.1. Perform Assignment                                                                  -               -           b
Limitation Code Q procedures


36.4. Q-Base web based tool                                                                 -        A            B
functions (PREVIOUSLY: 33.4.)


37. Casualty Reporting and
Procedures Relating to Deceased
Patients TR: AFI 36-3002, 41-210
(PREVIOUSLY: 34.)
37.1. Casualty Assistance Liaison                                                           A        B            -
(CAL) responsibilities
(PREVIOUSLY: 34.1.)

37.2. Process AF Form 570                                                                   1a             b                -           R
(Notification of Patient’s Medical
Status) and perform Casualty
Status notifications
(PREVIOUSLY: 34.2.)
37.3. Prepare and manage SI/VSI                                                             1a             b                -           R
roster (PREVIOUSLY: 34.3.)


37.4. Process death package                                                                 a              b                -           R
(PREVIOUSLY: 34.4.)


38. Wartime Mortuary Affairs
TR: AFI 34-242; AFH 10-247
V4; JP 4-06

38.1. Liaison for Mortuary                                                                  -        B            -                     R
Affairs Operations


38.2. Assist with Remains                                                                   -              b                -           R
Processing and Disposition


39. Business Case Analysis TR:                                                              -        -            B
AFI 41-210




                                                                        35
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

40. Joint Incentive Fund process                                                           -        -            B
TR 41-210


41. Wounded Warrior Program                                                                -        B            B
TR: Policy Memorandum on
Implementing Disability-Related
Provisions of the NDAA 2008
INPATIENT SERVICES


42. Duties associated with
inpatient records TR: AFI 41-210,
AFMAN 33-363, MRTR2 Users
Guide Perform duties
(PREVIOUSLY: 22.)
42.1. Perform Medical records                                                              -              2b               -
tracking functions
(PREVIOUSLY: 22.1.)

42.2. Extended ambulatory                                                                  -        A            B
records management
(PREVIOUSLY: 22.2.)

42.3. Perform inpatient records                                                            -              2b               -           R
disposition procedures
(PREVIOUSLY: 22.3.)

42.4. Overall Inpatient Health
Records Management TR: AFIs
33-364, 41-210, AFMANS 33-
363, MRTR2 Users Guide
(PREVIOUSLY: 22.4 )
42.4.1. Prepare, update, and                                                              2b              b                -           R
maintain inpatient medical
records

42.4.2. Inpatient records                                                                  A        B            -
retirement process TR: MRTR2


42.4.3. Complete inpatient                                                                 -              b            c
records retirement process


42.4.4. Quality control/Inpatient                                                          A        -            B
medical records management


43. Admissions Process TR: AFI
41-210, 44-102 (PREVIOUSLY:
23.)

43.1. Perform admission functions                                                         2b              b                -           R
(PREVIOUSLY: 23.1.)




                                                                       36
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

43.2. Perform transfer functions                                                          2b              b                -           R
(PREVIOUSLY: 23.2.)


43.3. Notify appropriate agencies                                                         2b              b                -           R
(PREVIOUSLY: 23.3.)


44. Disposition Process TR: AFI
41-210 (PREVIOUSLY: 24.)


44.1. Perform disposition                                                                 2b              b                -           R
functions (PREVIOUSLY: 24.1.)


44.2. Prepare and verify                                                                  2b              b                -           R
admission and disposition
associated reports
(PREVIOUSLY: 24.2.)
45. Birth Registrations TR: AFI
41-115, 41-210, AFH 41-114
(PREVIOUSLY: 35.)

45.1. Birth Registration in                                                                -        B            -
CONUS (PREVIOUSLY: 35.1.)


45.2. Birth Registration in                                                                -        B            -
OCONUS (PREVIOUSLY: 35.2.)


RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT

46. Financial Management and
Budgeting. TR: AFIs 41-120, 65-
601 V1, DFAS-DE 7010.1, and
DoD 7000.14 V1-15
(PREVIOUSLY: 38.)
46.1. Planning, Programming, &                                                             -        -            B
Budgeting System (PPBS) TR:
AFI 41-120, DoDD 7045.14,
DODI 7045.7
46.1.1 PPBS objective TR:                                                                  -        -            B
(DODD 7045.14, para 3.)


46.1.2. Future Year Defense                                                                -        -            B
Program (FYDP) objective TR:
(DODI 7045.7, para 5.4.)

46.2. Medical Budget TR: AFIs
41-120, 65-601, 36-502
(PREVIOUSLY: 38.2.)




                                                                       37
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill         Readiness
                                                                                                                                    Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                             Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                    Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                             Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                        /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

46.2.1. Plan and manage the                                                                -              a            b
medical budget (PREVIOUSLY:
38.2.1.)

46.2.2. Formulate Budget TR:                                                               -              b            b
DoD FMR Vol 2B Chap 12
(Formulating DHP Budget)
(PREVIOUSLY: 38.2.2.)
46.2.3. Accounting classification                                                          -        A            B
structure (BAG, PEC, RC/CC,
and EEIC) (PREVIOUSLY:
38.7.)
46.3. Accounting Principles



46.3.1. Commitments DFAS-DE                                                                -        -            B
7010.1, Ch 18


46.3.2. UOO (Undelivered                                                                   -        -            B
Orders Outstanding) DFAS-DE
7010.1, Ch 19

46.3.3. AEU (Accrued                                                                       -        -            B
Expenditures Unpaid) DFAS-DE
7010.1, Ch 20

46.3.4. AEP (Accrued                                                                       -        -            B
Expenditures Paid) DFAS-DE
7010.1, Ch 21

46.4. Funds Distribution TR: AFI
65-601 V1 Ch 5, V2 Ch 2-7, and
14

46.4.1. Total Obligation                                                                   -        -            B
Authority (TOA)


46.4.2. Understand Initial                                                                 -        -            B
Distribution Process


46.4.3. Annual and Quarterly                                                               -        -            B
Funding


46.4.4. Basic concepts and rules                                                           -        -            B
under CRA. TR: AFI 65-601 Vol
1

46.5. Budget Execution DoD TR:
FMR Vol 3


46.5.1. Determine Status of                                                                -        -            B
Funds




                                                                       38
1. Tasks Knowledge and             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References               Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                              A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                       3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                     Skills
                                                                                       Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                              Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                     Tasks
                                             Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                              ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                              Frequency
                                                                                          C        C      O     C      O
                                             Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                     plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                          S        C      T     C      T

46.5.2. Track Reimbursements                                                              -        -            B



46.5.3. Civilian Pay AFI 36-502,                                                          -        -            B
DoD FMR Vol 8


46.6. Perform End-of-year close-                                                          -              a            b
out activities DFAS-DE 7010.1
Ch 27, Section L
(PREVIOUSLY: 38.4.)
46.6.1. Management of Prior                                                               -        -            B
Year Funds


46.6.2. Perform Tri-Annual                                                                -               -           b
Review of Obligations DFAS
7220.4-I

46.7. Financial Management
System Products TR: Air Force
Medical Service Defense Health
Program Budget Execution Guide
(Version 1.2.)
46.7.1. Financial documents                                                               -        A            B
(MORDS, MIPRS, AF Form 9,
and AF Form 616)
(PREVIOUSLY: 38.5.)
46.7.2. Financial Reports (OBL,                                                           -        A            B
ODL, STH, Budget execution)
(PREVIOUSLY: 38.6.)

46.7.3. Utilize Defense Medical                                                           -               -           2b
Logistics Standard Support
(DMLSS)

46.7.4. Business Objects Reports                                                          -        -            B



46.7.5. Open Document List                                                                -        -            B
(ODL)


46.7.6. Selective Transaction                                                             -        -            B
History List (STH)


46.8. Cost Center Managers
(CCM) TR: AFI 41-120
(PREVIOUSLY: 38.3.)

46.8.1. Conduct CCM training                                                              -              b                -
(initial and recurring)
(PREVIOUSLY: 38.3.1.)




                                                                      39
1. Tasks Knowledge and               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                 Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                                A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                D
                                                                                         3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill         Readiness
                                                                                                                                     Skills
                                                                                         Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                              Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                     Tasks
                                               Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                                ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                              Frequency
                                                                                            C        C      O     C      O
                                               Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                        /Method
                                                       plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                            S        C      T     C      T

46.8.2. Perform CCM analysis of                                                             -              b            2b
expenses (PREVIOUSLY:
38.3.2.)

46.8.3. Update CCM Guide                                                                    -              a            b
(PREVIOUSLY: 38.3.3.)


46.9. Uniform Business Office
(UBO) TR: AFIs 41-101, 41-115,
41-120, 44-144, 51-302, 51-502
AFH 41-114, DoD 6010.15-M, ,
UBO Manual, 10.U.S.C. Sec
1095, 32 CFR 220
(PREVIOUSLY: 39. )
46.9.1. Compliance Program                                                                  -        -            B
(DOD 6010.15-M)


46.9.2. TPC Program                                                                         -        -            B
Quarterly/Annual Reporting (Ref:
DOD 6010.15-M, C4.12)

46.9.2.1. Purpose of Medical                                                                A        -            B
Service Account (MSA)
(PREVIOUSLY: 39.1.1.)

46.9.2.2. Perform Control                                                                   -               -           b
accounts receivable and deposit
funds (PREVIOUSLY: 39.1.3.)

46.9.2.3. Determine rate, billing,                                                          -               -           b
and collection activities
(PREVIOUSLY: 39.1.2.)

46.9.2.4. Utilize MSA Reports                                                               -               -           b



46.9.3. Medical Affirmative
Claims (Ref: Medical Cost
Recovery Program policy
guidance) (PREVIOUSLY: 39.3.)
46.9.3.1.Collecting and                                                                     A        B            -
processing 1488/Injury Log IAW
applicable Memorandum of
Agreements
46.9.3.2. Manage and maintain                                                               A        B            -
AF Form 438, Medical Care Third
Party Liability Notification

46.9.3.3. Quarterly reconciliation                                                          -        B            -
process


47. Business Plan TR: AFI 41-
120




                                                                        40
1. Tasks Knowledge and            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References              Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                             A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                      3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                    Skills
                                                                                      Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                             Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                    Tasks
                                            Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                             ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                             Frequency
                                                                                         C        C      O     C      O
                                            Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                    plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                         S        C      T     C      T

47.1. Components of the                                                                  -        -            B
Business plan


47.2. Create Resource And                                                                -               -           b
Program Information
Development System (RAPIDS)
slide.
48. Informatics/Data Quality
(DQ) TR: DODI 6040.40


48.1. Data Quality Roles &                                                               -        A            B
Responsibilities


48.2. Prepare Data Quality (DQ)                                                          -               -           2b
statement


49. Medical Expense and
Performance Reporting System
(MEPRS)/Expense Assignment
System (EAS) TR: AFIs 41-102,
41-120, 41-210, DoD 6010.13M,
EAS Users’ Manual, WWR
User’s Manual, EAS Reference
Guide, DMHRSi Users Guide,
Worldwide Workload Report
User Manual (PREVIOUSLY:
42.)
49.1. Purpose and use of MEPRS                                                           A        B            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 42.1.)


49.2. MEPRS Coding Structure                                                             A        B            -
(PREVIOUSLY: 42.2.)


49.3. Collect and process MEPRS                                                          -              b                -
data (PREVIOUSLY: 42.3.)


49.4. MEPRS/EAS reports                                                                           A            B
(PREVIOUSLY: 42.4.)


49.5. System Repository                                                                  -        -            A
(PREVIOUSLY: 42.5.)


49.6. Interfacing workload                                                               -        B            -
systems (PREVIOUSLY: 42.6.)


49.7. Defense Medical Human                                                              A        -            -
Resource System internet
(DMHRSi)




                                                                     41
1. Tasks Knowledge and             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References               Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                              A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                       3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                     Skills
                                                                                       Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                              Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                     Tasks
                                             Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                              ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                              Frequency
                                                                                          C        C      O     C      O
                                             Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                     plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                          S        C      T     C      T

49.7.1. Utilize Defense Medical                                                           -              b            2b
Human Resource System internet
(DMHRSi)

49.8. Worldwide Workload                                                                  A        B            -
Report (WWR) (PREVIOUSLY:
42.8.)

50. MANPOWER TR: AFI 38-
101, 38-201, 36-2110, AFMAN
38-208, Vol 1, AFPD 38-2, Flight
Path, PAD 06-03
(PREVIOUSLY: 41. )
50.1. AFMS Flight Path AFMS                                                               -        -            B
Flight Path, PAD 06-03


50.2. AFMS Corporate Structure                                                            -        -            B
TR: AFI 41-120


50.3. General principles           7                                                      -        A            B
regarding Unit Manning
Document (UMD) elements and
impacts (i.e. Action Change
Request, Organization Change
Request, Career Progression
Group, Zero Balance Transfer,
Manpower Change Request)
 50.4. Perform UMD/UPMR                                                                   -               -           2b
reconciliation


50.5. Process Manning Assistance                                                          -               -           2b
Requests (OCO) (Active Duty,
IMA, Reserve, Guard).

50.6. Program Objective                                                                   -        -            B
Memorandum (POM) TR: AFI
38-101, AFI 38-201 and Medical
Planning and Programming
Guidance (published each POM)
51. Patient Valuables and
Weapons TR: DoD 6010.15-M
(PREVIOUSLY: 40.)

51.1. Perform Safeguard patient                                                           1a             b                -           R
valuables and weapons
procedures (PREVIOUSLY:
40.1.)
52. Support                                                                               -        -            B
Agreements/MOU/MOA TR: AFI
25-201 (PREVIOUSLY: 44.)

INFORMATION
SYSTEMS




                                                                      42
1. Tasks Knowledge and                2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                  Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                                 A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                          3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                        Skills
                                                                                          Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                                 Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                        Tasks
                                                Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                                 ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                                 Frequency
                                                                                             C        C      O     C      O
                                                Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                        plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                             S        C      T     C      T

53. Information Systems and
Management TR: DOD 8570.1,
AFMAN 33-285, AFI 41-211,
AFI 33-112, AFI 33-115V1, AFI
33-115V2, AFSSI 8502, AFSSI
8520, AFSSI 8580, AFI33-114,
33-119, 33-106 and 33-129
(PREVIOUSLY: 45.)
53.1. Medical automated                                                                      A        B            -
applications general overview and
terminology TR: AFI 41-211,
AFMAN 33-285 supplement to
DOD 8570.01M (PREVIOUSLY:
45.1.)
53.2. Hardware/software                                                                      A        -                      -
inventory procedures REF: AFI
33-112 Information Tech,
Hardware Asset Management,
AFI 33-115V2, Licensing
Network Users (PREVIOUSLY:
45.2.)
53.2.1. Perform                                                                              -        b                      -
Hardware/software inventory
procedures REF: AFI 33-112
Information Tech, Hardware
Asset Management, AFI 33-
115V2, Licensing Network Users
(PREVIOUSLY: 45.3.)
53.3. Information System Security                                                            A        B            -
and User/System Accreditation.
(Diacap Process) Knowledge of
process and accreditation
procedures. AFSSI 8502,
Organizational Computer
Security, AFSSI 8520,
Identification and Authentication,
AFSSI 8580, Remanence
Security. (PREVIOUSLY: 45.6.)
53.4. Basic network/hardware                                                                 A        B            -
component identification And
capability (PREVIOUSLY: 45.4.)

54. SEI 260 and A+ Certification
Training


54.1. Can identify basic facts and                                                           -              3b               -
terms and complete required
certification training according to
duties associated with ***SEI
260**. TR: IT E-Learning CBT:
DOD 8570 IA Certification
Support
54.1.1. Complete Test Prep:                                                                  -              3b               -
Essentials. TR: IT E-Learning
CBT: DOD 8570 IA Certification
Support DOD8570 A+ Technical
Level I


                                                                         43
1. Tasks Knowledge and                2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                  Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                                 A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                          3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                        Skills
                                                                                          Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                                 Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                        Tasks
                                                Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                                 ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                                 Frequency
                                                                                             C        C      O     C      O
                                                Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                        plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                             S        C      T     C      T

54.1.2. Complete Test Prep:                                                                  -              3b               -
Practical Application. TR: IT E-
Learning CBT: DOD 8570 IA
Certification Support, DOD8570
A+ Technical Level I
54.1.3. Identify key internal PC                                                             -              2b               -
components, Standard Desktop
Configuration (PC), Printer Setup,
Publish CAC card certificates.
54.1.4. Build a network cable and                                                            -              2b               -
test.
http://mmlviewer.books24x7.com/
book/id_20432/viewer.asp?booki
d=20432&chunkid=1
54.2. Clinical Software                                                                      -        A            B
Applications (PIMR, AHLTA,
ICDB). TR: Locally Developed
Training and Procedures
54.3. AFI 41-211, Management                                                                 -        A            -
Of Medical Information Services.
TR:
https://vc.afms.mil/AFMOA/SGA
/SGAI/default.aspx
54.4. AFI 33-114, Software                                                                   -        -            A
Management.
TR:http://www.epublishing.af.mil
/shared/media/epubs/AFI33-
114.pdf
54.5. AFI 33-115 V1, Network                                                                 -        -            A
Management.
TR:http://www.epublishing.af.mil
/shared/media/epubs/AFI33-
115V1.pdf
54.6. AFI 33-332, Privacy Act                                                                -        -            A
Program.
TR:http://www.epublishing.af.mil
/shared/media/epubs/AFI33-
332.pdf
54.7. DoD 8570.01-M,                                                                         -        -            A
Information Assurance Workforce
Improvement Program.
TR:https://private.afca.af.mil/optn
/docs/DoD%208570.01m%20Cha
nge%202%20-%2002-26-10.pdf
54.8. AFI 33-100, User                                                                       -        A            -
Responsibilities and Guidance for
Information Systems.
TR:http://www.epublishing.af.mil
/shared/media/epubs/AFI33-
100.pdf
55. TRAINING FOR LEVEL II
Information Assurance (System
Administrators, Network
Management, Server room
support)




                                                                         44
1. Tasks Knowledge and                2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                  Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                                 A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                          3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                        Skills
                                                                                          Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                                 Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                        Tasks
                                                Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                                 ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                                 Frequency
                                                                                             C        C      O     C      O
                                                Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                        plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                             S        C      T     C      T

55.1. Can identify basic facts and                                                           -               -           3b
terms and complete required
certification training according to
duties associated with ***SEI
264**. TR: IT E-Learning CBT:
DOD 8570 IA Certification
Support , DOD8570 Security +
Technical Level I
55.2. Complete Test Prep:                                                                    -               -           3b
Security + If ob duties require the
member to be Security + Certified
(264). TR: IT E-Learning CBT:
DOD 8570 IA Certification.
Support , DOD8570 Sec +
Technical Level I
56. Support Clinical Software
Applications TR: Locally
Developed Training and
Procedures
56.1. Administer/Maintain                                                                    -               -           2b
AHLTA Servers


56.1.1. Pull/Analyze Server                                                                  -               -           2b
Utilization Reports


56.1.2. Install Software Updates                                                             -              2b               -



56.1.3. Create/Manage User                                                                   -               -           2b
Accounts


56.1.4.Configure Server load                                                                 -              2b               -
balance


56.1.5. Support AHLTA End                                                                    -               -           2b
User Devices


56.2. Support/Maintain Corporate                                                             -              2b               -
Dental Application


56.3. Create/Manage DMHRSi                                                                   -              2b               -
User Accounts


56.4. Update/Troubleshoot                                                                    -               -           2b
Business Object Applications
(M2, EAS IV, etc...)

56.5. Troubleshoot/Support                                                                   -              2b               -
Teleradiology PACS Network
configurations




                                                                         45
1. Tasks Knowledge and               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                 Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                                A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                         3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                       Skills
                                                                                         Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                                Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                       Tasks
                                               Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                                ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                                Frequency
                                                                                            C        C      O     C      O
                                               Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                       plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                            S        C      T     C      T

56.6. Install/Configure/Update                                                              -              2b               -
DMLSS


56.7.                                                                                       -               -           2b
Install/Troubleshoot/Configure
CRISS

56.8. Troubleshoot/Support                                                                  -              2b               -
QMATIC Pharmacy System


56.9. Provide technical support to                                                          -              2b               -
Tele -Mental Health Program


56.10. Support/Troubleshoot                                                                 -              2b               -
Essentris


56.11. Install/Configure/update                                                             -              2b               -
CCQAS/BDQAS


56.12.Understand                                                                            -        -            B
vulnerability/threat assessment
TR: AFI41-211

56.13. Understand Systems                                                                   -        -            B
Security practices in accordance
with HIPAA laws TR: AFI41-
211
57. Support Theater Medical
Information Program-Joint
(TMIP-J) in the deployed
environment TR: IT/STX Course
Gunter AFB
57.1. Administer/Maintain                                                                   -              2b               -
TMIP-J Servers


57.2. Install/Configure AHLTA-                                                              -              2b               -
T


57.3. Administer/Maintain TC2                                                               -              2b               -
Server


57.3.1. Install/Update/Configure                                                            -              2b               -
TC2 Application


57.3.2. Create/Manage TC2                                                                   -                     B
Accounts




                                                                        46
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

57.4. Troubleshoot/Repair TMIP-                                                            -              2b
J EUDs


MEDICAL READINESS


58. MRNCO Oversight of
Readiness TR: AFIs 10-401, 10-
403, 10-2501, 10-204, 10-201, 10-
203, 10-206, 41-106, 36-2201, 10-
2603, 10-2604, and 90-1601)
58.1. Air Force Planning
overview (PREVIOUSLY: 46.1.)


58.1.1. Objectives of Air Force     5                                                      A        B            -
planning/Terminology and
Acronyms

58.1.2. AEF Construct,              5                                                      -        B            -
Composition, Schedule, Battle
Rhythm, Vulnerability period

58.1.3. Deliberate and Crisis                                                              -        B            -
action Planning and Execution
Segments (DCAPES) Overview

59. Control Center Functions
(AFIs 10-2501, 10-204, 10-206,
41-106)

59.1 Medical Control Center                                                                a              2b               -           R
mission/functions
(PREVIOUSLY: 46.2.)

59.2. Secure/non-secure Comm                                                              2b               -               -           R
devices/procedures
(PREVIOUSLY: 46.5.)

59.3. Utilize phonetic alphabet                                                           2b               -               -           R
(PREVIOUSLY: 46.4.)


59.4.Utilize Maps/Events                                                                   -              2b           2b              R
Log/Status boards


59.5. Run MCC Checklists                                                                   -              2b               -



60. MRNCO Oversight of
Readiness (AFIs 10-401, 10-403,
10-2501, 10-204, 10-201, 41-106,
36-2201, 10-2603, 10-2604, 90-
1601)




                                                                       47
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

60.1. Medical Readiness                                                                    A        B            B
Committee (PREVIOUSLY:
46.9)

60.1.1. Develop exercise                                                                   -               -           2b
objectives/scenario inputs


60.1.2. Conduct Hotwash/Post-                                                                                          2b
Incident Exercise Summary


60.2. Procedures for Medical                                                               -              2b               -
Readiness In/Outprocessing


60.3. After Action                                                                         -        -            B
Reports/Lessons Learned program


60.4. Unit MR Training Manager                                                             -        -            B
(oversight of Formal UTC,
Tiered, RSV/MCRP training
programs)
61. Unit Reports Monitor
(Mission Capability Reporting)
(AFIs 10-401, 10-403, 10-2501,
10-204, 10-201, 10-206, 41-106)
61.1. Status of Resources and                                                              A        B
Training System (SORTS) Report
(PREVIOUSLY: 46.6.)

61.1.1. Complete Status of                                                                                             b
Resources and Training System
(SORTS) Report

61.2. Aerospace Expeditionary                                                              A        B
Force (AEF) Reporting Tool
(ART) (PREVIOUSLY: 46.7.)

61.2.1. Utilize Aerospace                                                                                              b
Expeditionary Force (AEF)
Reporting Tool (ART)

61.3. Defense Readiness                                                                    A        B
Reporting System (DRRS)


61.3.1. Utilize Defense Readiness                                                                                      b
Reporting System (DRRS)


61.4. Air Force Medical                                                                    A        B
Readiness Decision Support
System (MRDSS)
(PREVIOUSLY: 46.8.)
61.4.1. Utilize Air Force Medical                                                                                      b
Readiness Decision Support
System (MRDSS)



                                                                       48
1. Tasks Knowledge and             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References               Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                              A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                       3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                     Skills
                                                                                       Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                              Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                     Tasks
                                             Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                              ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                              Frequency
                                                                                          C        C      O     C      O
                                             Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                     plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                          S        C      T     C      T

61.5. Complete MEDRED-C                                                                   a               -           2b              R
Reports


61.6. Complete SITREP Reports                                                             a               -           2b              R



61.7. Unit Designed Operational                                                           -        -            B
Capability (DOC) Statement
DOC statement/UTC Availability

61.8. Input MR training data in                                                           -              2b               -
MRDSS


62. Unit Deployment Manager
(UDM) TR (AFIs 10-401, 10-403,
10-2501, 10-204, 10-201, 10-203,
41-106, 36-2201, AEF Online
web site)
62.1. UDM responsibilities                                                                -        A            B
(PREVIOUSLY: 46.13.)


62.2. Installation/Facility                                                               -        B            B
Deployment Function
(PREVIOUSLY: 46.12.)

62.3. Maintain Personnel                                                                  -              2b           2b
Readiness Folders


62.4. Facilitate Reclama and                                                              -               -           2b
Shortfall Process/Tasking
validation

62.5. Time Phased Force                                                                   -        -            B
Deployment Data
(TPFDD)/Deployment
Requirements Manning Document
(DRMD) contents
(PREVIOUSLY: 46.14)
62.6. Utilize AEF                                                                         -               -           2b
Online/Logistics Module
(LOGMOD)

62.7. Reporting instructions                                                              -               -           2b
(Identify theatre-specific
deployment requirements)

62.8. Unit Type Codes (UTC)        7                                                      A        -            B
Management (PREVIOUSLY:
46.10.)

62.9. Coordinate Unit Medical                                                             -               -           b
Resource Letter (MRL)




                                                                      49
1. Tasks Knowledge and               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                 Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                                A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                         3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                       Skills
                                                                                         Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                                Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                       Tasks
                                               Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                                ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                                Frequency
                                                                                            C        C      O     C      O
                                               Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                       plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                            S        C      T     C      T

62.10. Unit Plans NCO (AFIs 10-
401, 10-403, 10-2501, 41-106, 10-
2603, 10-2604, DODI 6055.17)

62.10.1. Manage plans (IDP,                                                                 -        A            B
CEMP, DCP, IGESP, and MCRP)


62.10.2. Review, maintain &                                                                 -               -           2b
coordinate unit plans


62.10.3. Facilitate procedures for                                                          -               -           2b
readiness MOAs/MOUs


63. MC-CBRN Oversight (AFIs
10-2501, 10-204, 41-106, 41-209,
10-2603, 10-2604, 29 CFR
1910.120, DODI 6055.17)
63.1.                                                                                       -        -            B
Exercise/Budget/Inventory/Traini
ng requirements overview

63.2. Coordinate resource,                                                                  -               -           2b
training, budget requirements with
Team Chiefs

PERSONNEL AND
ADMINISTRATION

64. Automated Systems
(PREVIOUSLY: 47.1.)


64.1. Utilize Base Level Service                                                            -              2b               -
Delivery Model (BLDSM)/Case
Management System (CMS) TR:
AFCSM 36-699 Vol 1; Personnel
Services Delivery Guide (PSD)
Handbook; CMS Guidance (all
three are located on the AFPC
Website)
64.2. Utilize Defense Medical                                                               -              2b               -
Human Resources System-
internet (DMHRSi) TR: AFI 41-
102; DMHRSi Training Instance
https://dmhrsitrng.csd.disa.mil;
DMHRSi Student Study Guide
https://kx.afms.mil/kxweb/dotmil/
kjPage.do?cid=CTB_082980&fun
ctionalArea=HealthServicesMana
gementCFM (HR Module)




                                                                        50
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

64.3. Process TDY                                                                          -              2b               -
Orders/Defense Travel System
(DTS)TR: AFI 65-103, AFI 33-
328, all DTS training information
to include manuals, quick
reference material, guides and
information papers are located on
the training tab of the DTS
training site:
http://www.defensetravel.osd.mil/
dts/site/index.jsp
65. Human Resources
(PREVIOUSLY: 47.2.)


65.1. Perform In/Outprocessing                                                             -              b                -
TR: AFI 36-2103, AFCSM 36-
699 Vol 1

65.2. Manage                                                                               -              b                -
Sponsorship/INTRO TR: AFI 36-
2103

65.3. Process Personnel Action                                                             -              2b               -
Change & Duty Information
Updates TR: AFCSM 36-699 Vol
1
65.4. Retirement & Separations                                                             -        B            -
TR: AFI 36-3206, AFI 36-3208,
AFPAM 36-3210, AFI 36-3212,
AFI 36-2102, AFI 36-3202
(PREVIOUSLY: 47.2.5.)
65.5. Leave Procedures TR: AFI                                                             -        B            B
36-815; AFI 36-3003
(PREVIOUSLY: 47.2.6.)

66. Management Functions
(PREVIOUSLY: 47.3.)


66.1. Process Unfavorable                                                                  -               -           b
Information Files/Control Roster
TR: AFI 36-2907
(PREVIOUSLY: 47.3.1.)
66.2. Duty Status Tracking TR:                                                             -        B            -
AFI 36-2134


66.3. Process Awards,                                                                      -              b            b               R
Decorations & Recognition TR:
AFI 36-2803, AFPAM 36-2801
Vol 1-3 (PREVIOUSLY: 47.3.4.)
66.4. Manage EPR/OPR/LOE TR:                                                               -              b            b               R
AFI 36-2406, AFI 36-2401
(PREVIOUSLY: 47.3.5.)




                                                                       51
1. Tasks Knowledge and             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References               Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                              A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                       3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                     Skills
                                                                                       Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                              Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                     Tasks
                                             Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                              ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                              Frequency
                                                                                          C        C      O     C      O
                                             Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                     plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                          S        C      T     C      T

66.5. BAS/SIK TR: DFAS-DEM                                                                -        A            B
7073.2 Vol 1 Chap 6, AFI 34-241,
AFPAM 36-2241
(PREVIOUSLY: 47.3.6.)
66.6. Promotion TR: AFI 36-                                                               -        B            -
2606, AFI 36-2605, AFI 36-2241
Vol 1 & 2, AFI 36-2501, AFI 36-
2504, AFPAM 36-2506, AFCSM
36-699 Vol 1 Chap 13
(PREVIOUSLY: 47.3.7.)
66.7. Manage WAPS Testing TR:                                                             -              b                -
AFI 36-2206, AFI 36-2502
(PREVIOUSLY: 47.3.9.)

66.8. Functional Area Records                                                             -        -            B
Manager (FARM) Program TR:
AFI 33-322

66.8.1. Oversee Functional Area                                                           -              2b           2b
Records Manager (FARM)
Program TR: AFI 33-322

66.9. Maintain Medical                                                                    -              b            b
Publications & Forms TR: AFI
37-137

66.10. Process Official Mail TR:                                                          -              2b               -
AFPCI 33-101; DODI 4525.8 AF
Sup 1

66.11. Monitor Personnel                                                                  -              2b               -
Information File TR: AFI 36-
2608; AFMAN 37-123

66.12. Monitor Drug Demand                                                                -              2b               -
Reduction (Notification
procedures) TR: AFI 44-120, para
4.6.11.8
66.13. Manage Controlled Spend                                                            -              2b           2b
Account (CSA) and/or
Government Travel Card (GTC)
TR: DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Vol 9,
Chap 3; DoD Reg 7351.1
66.14. Process Report of Survey                                                           -               -           2b
(ROS) TR: AFMAN 23-220


66.15. Process Inventory                                                                  -              2b               -
Management TR: AFI 47-101,
AFMAN 23-110 (Previously 37)

SENSITIVE DUTIES
(PRP and PSP)

67. Sensitive Duties Program TR:
AFI 41-210, DoDM 5210.42R,
AFMAN 10-3902, DoD 5210.87,
DoD 5210.55 (PREVIOUSLY
36.)


                                                                      52
1. Tasks Knowledge and               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                 Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                                A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                D
                                                                                         3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill         Readiness
                                                                                                                                     Skills
                                                                                         Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                              Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                     Tasks
                                               Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                                ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                              Frequency
                                                                                            C        C      O     C      O
                                               Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                        /Method
                                                       plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                            S        C      T     C      T

67.1. PRP/PSP medical records        3/5/7                                                  A        B            B
requirement (PREVIOUSLY:
36.1.)

67.1.1. MTF PRP/PSP Monitor                                                                 -        A            B
Roles & Responsibilities. TR:
DoD 5210.42-R_AFMAN 10-
3902 and AFI 41-210
67.1.2. Roles and                                                                           -        A            B
Responsibilities of the Competent
Medical Authority (CMA) TR:
DoD 5210.42-R_AFMAN 10-
3902
67.1.3. Personnel Data System                                                               -        B            -
(PDS) PRP Status Codes. TR:
DoD 5210.42-R_AFMAN 10-
3902
67.2. Administrative Qualification
Procedures. TR: DoD 5210.42-
R_AFMAN 10-3902 IC 2, AF
Form 286, and AF Form 286A
67.2.1. Screen PRP/PSP medical       5/7                                                    1a             b            2b
records for Potential
Disqualifying Information (PDI)
(PREVIOUSLY: 36.2.)
67.2.2. Identify and document        5/7                                                    -              b            2b
Potential Disqualifying
Information (PDI).

67.2.3. Perform PDI notification     5/7                                                    a              b            2b
procedures (PREVIOUSLY:
36.3.)

67.3. Certification Process



67.3.1. Perform Initial                                                                     -              b            2b
Certification Procedures


67.3.2. Perform Interim                                                                     -              b            2b
Certification Procedures


67.3.3. Perform Personnel                                                                   -              b            2b
Transfers (PRP to PRP transfers)


67.4. Removal and Reinstatement.
TR: DoD 5210.42-R_AFMAN
10-3902 IC 2, AF Form 286, and
AF Form 286A
67.4.1. Perform                                                                             -              b            2b
Disqualification/Permanent
Disqualification




                                                                        53
1. Tasks Knowledge and              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/
Technical References                Tasks                                               Information Provided

                                               A       B       C       D        E         A           B            C                  D
                                                                                        3-Skill     5-Skill      7-Skill           Readiness
                                                                                                                                      Skills
                                                                                        Level       Level         Level
                                                                                                                               Verification (RSV)
                                                                                                                                      Tasks
                                              Train   Train   Train    Trai    Certi      (1)      (1)    (2)   (1)    (2)
                                               ing     ing      ee      ner     fier
                                                                                                                               Frequency
                                                                                           C        C      O     C      O
                                              Start   Com     Initia   Initi   Initia                                          /Method
                                                      plete     ls      als      ls        R        D      J     D      J
                                                                                           S        C      T     C      T

67.4.2. Suspension                                                                         A        B            -
recommendation


67.4.2.1 Process Suspension                                                                -              b            2b
recommendation


67.4.3. Temporary Decertification                                                          A        B            -



67.4.3.1 Process Temporary                                                                 -              b            2b
Decertification


67.4.4. Permanent Decertification                                                          A        B                      -



67.4.4.1. Process Permanent                                                                -              b            2b
Decertification


67.4.5.                                                                                    A        B            -
Reinstatement/requalification for
permanently
decertified/disqualified
individuals.
67.4.5.1. Process                                                                          -              b            2b
Reinstatement/requalification for
permanently
decertified/disqualified
individuals
67.4.6. Appeal Procedures                                                                  A        B            -



67.5. Discrepancy Reporting TR:
DoD 5210.42-R_AFMAN 10-
3902 IC 2

67.5.1. Report CAT I                5/7                                                    -              2b               -
Discrepancies




                                                                       54
                                4A0X1 Aeromedical Evacuation (AE)
                                  Job Qualification Standard (JQS)
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical             DATE      DATE        TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFYING
References                                  STARTED   COMPLETED   INITIALS   INITIALS   OFFICIALS
                                                                                        INITIALS

1. TRAC2ES Training TR: TRAC2ES
CBT and User Guides
2. Patient Movement Process TR: AFH
41-114, AFIs 13-207, 41-101, 44-165, and
41-301, 41-307, AFJI 41-315, AFJH 41-
313, AFJMAN 41-306, DoD 4515.13R,
DoDI 6000.11, Joint Publication 4-02.2,
Patient Movement Policies, Standard
Operating Procedures, TRAC2ES User
Guides, and Local Procedures
2.1. Pre-Mission (Originating Facility)
2.1.1. Eligibility for Travel
2.1.2. Commercial Travel Protocols
2.1.3. Use of AF Form 3839, Patient
Reporting Data Collection Sheet
2.1.4. TRAC2ES Entry/Submission to
Patient Movement Requirements Center
(PMRC)
2.1.5. TRAC2ES Patient Travel Cite
Number
2.1.6. Coordination with External
Agencies (Hospitals, Patient Staging
Areas or Facilities)
2.1.7. Patient Briefing
2.1.8. AE Preparation Checklist Minimum
Requirements
2.1.9. Medical Records and Forms
Familiarization
2.1.9.1. AF Form 3899, Aeromedical
Evacuation Patient Record
2.1.9.2. AF Form 3838, Do Not
Resuscitate Order (DNR) Certification for
Aeromedical Evacuation
2.1.9.3. SF Form 502, Medical Record
Narrative Summary (Clinical Resume)
2.1.9.4. SF 513, Medical Record –
Continuation Sheet
2.1.9.5. Nursing Inpt Transfer Sum
2.1.10. Temporary Duty Travel Orders
2.1.11. Baggage Requirements
2.1.11.1. Allowable Weight
2.1.11.2. AF Form 3851, Patient Baggage
Data
2.1.11.3. DD Form 600, Baggage Tag
2.1.11.4. Lost/Unaccompanied Baggage
2.1.11.5. Shipment of Unaccompanied
Baggage
2.1.12. Patient Command Notification
2.1.13. Rules for Medical and Non-

                                                      55
                                4A0X1 Aeromedical Evacuation (AE)
                                  Job Qualification Standard (JQS)
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical              DATE      DATE        TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFYING
References                                   STARTED   COMPLETED   INITIALS   INITIALS   OFFICIALS
                                                                                         INITIALS

Medical Attendant
2.1.13.1. AE of Unaccompanied Minor
2.1.13.2. AF Form 2239, Consent for
Medical Care and Transportation in the
Aeromedical Evacuation System or Power
of Attorney
2.1.14. Inspection of Patients, Attendants
and Baggage
2.1.14.1. Identification/Confiscation of
Country/Area of Responsibility-Specific
"Unauthorized" Material
2.1.14.2. AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue
Receipt, for Items Confiscated
2.1.14.3. Confiscation of Weapons and
Ammunition
2.1.14.4. Anti-Hijacking Statement
2.1.14.5. Patient and Attendant Meals
2.1.14.5.1. Meal Orders
2.1.14.5.2. Special Dietary Requirement
2.1.14.6. Flight/Patient Tracking using
TRAC2ES
2.1.14.7. AE Crew Briefing
2.2. Mission Packet Preparation
2.2.1. AF Form 3860, Aeromedical Patient
Record Data
2.2.2. PMR or AF Form 3839
2.2.3. AF Form 3830, Patient Manifest
2.2.4. AF Form 3829, Summary of
Patients Evacuated by Air
2.2.5. SF 600, Health Record—
Chronological Record of Medical Care
2.2.6. Flight and Fleet Kitchen Request
2.2.7. TRAC2ES Special Diet Roster
2.2.8. TRAC2ES Patient Special
Equipment Roster
2.2.9. Temporary Duty Travel Orders
(Reference 2.1.11)
2.2.10. Anti-Hijacking Statement
(Reference 2.1.15.3)
2.3. Post-Mission (Receiving Facility)
2.3.1. In-Transit Visibility Events
2.3.2. Following Mission to Completion
viaTRACE2S/PMRC
2.3.3. Analysis of Discrepancies
2.3.4. Anti-Hijacking Procedures
(Reference 2.1.15)
2.3.5. Arrangement of Further Medical
Care

                                                       56
                                4A0X1 Aeromedical Evacuation (AE)
                                  Job Qualification Standard (JQS)
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical             DATE      DATE        TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFYING
References                                  STARTED   COMPLETED   INITIALS   INITIALS   OFFICIALS
                                                                                        INITIALS

2.3.5.1. Ground Transportation
2.3.5.2. Billeting for Outpatient/Medical
Attendant/Non-Medical Attendant
2.3.6. Death in Flight Procedures
2.3.7. Remaining Overnight Patient
Procedures
2.3.8. Release of Patients from
Aeromedical Evacuation System - AF
Form 3841, Certificate of Release
2.3.9. AF Form 3835, Aeromedical
Mission Management I and AF Form
3836, Aeromedical Mission Management
II
3. Bed Status Report TR: AFJI 41-315 and
AFI 41-307
3.1. Patient Status Board or AF Form
3892, Patients Holding in Aeromedical
Staging Facility
3.2. Patient Information Board
4. Zulu Time TR: AFI 11-2AEV3 CL-2
(Pg 15); Air Force Portal World Clock
located at www.my.af.mil;
www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/
4.1. Zulu Time Conversion
5. Julian Date Calendar TR: References
located on Air Force Portal at
www.my.af.mil and AFMS Kx located at
https://kx.afms.mil (Search Pages)
5.1. Julian Date Conversion
6. Communication TR: AFIs 31-401, 33-
201 and 33-332
6.1. Communication Security
6.2. Information Security
6.2.1. Protocol Router Network (Secret
and Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router
Network)
6.3. Privacy Act
7. Customs TR: DoD 4500.54-G and
AMCI 24-101 V16
7.1. Role/Responsibility of Border
Clearance Agencies
7.2. Border Clearance Procedures
8. Flight Line Driving TR: AFJMAN 24-
306, AFMAN 10-100 and Local Guidance
8.1. Airfield Drivers Course (Via
Advanced Distributed Learning Service)
8.2. International Military Route Signs &
Road Signs
8.3. Vehicle Checks


                                                      57
                              4A0X1 Aeromedical Evacuation (AE)
                                Job Qualification Standard (JQS)
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical         DATE      DATE        TRAINEE    TRAINER    CERTIFYING
References                              STARTED   COMPLETED   INITIALS   INITIALS   OFFICIALS
                                                                                    INITIALS

9. Patient Load/Unload TR: AFI 41-301
9.1. Litter Training
9.2. Patient Loading Procedures
9.3. Patient Unloading Procedures
10. CASF CONFIGURATION
11. Aircraft Tracking




                                                  58
PART II, SECTION B – COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST

1. Course Objective. To obtain a copy of the Apprentice COL, contact: 382 TRS/XYBC, 3038 William Hardee Road,
Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234.

2. Measurement. Students are measured in both knowledge and performance elements using a written test and a
performance progress check.

3. Standard. The course minimum standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance measurement
are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructor assistance is provided as
needed during the progress check and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory
performance is attained.

4. Proficiency Level. Most course task performance is taught to the 2b proficiency level, which means the student can
do most parts of the task but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can
also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.

PART II, SECTION C – SUPPORT MATERIALS

1. Support Material.

1.1. Training Platforms (TP). The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas.

1.1.1. Beneficiary Counseling Assistance Coordinator (BCAC) (STS Item 20). Personnel assigned as BCACs should
use the following TPs to become proficient in the tasks associated with new responsibilities.

1.1.1.1. The Health Benefits Website, https://kx.afms.mil/healthbenefits, provides the latest information and tools on
Health Plan Management. Some information on this website is password protected; therefore, personnel will be
required to apply for an account in order to gain access.

1.1.1.2. TRICARE Fundamentals Course (STS Item 19), http://www.tricare.mil/tricareu/default.aspx is a regional-
based course. Location rotates each quarter. It is an entry-level 3-day course designed for those personnel involved in
providing TRICARE assistance and counseling to beneficiaries. Major topics include TRICARE eligibility, medical
benefits to include TRICARE Prime Remote and TRICARE for Life, transitional benefits, pharmacy, dental, claims and
appeals, and customer service. The target audiences for this course are BCACs, Debt Collection Assistance Officers
(DCAOs), and Contract Representatives who are on their initial TRICARE assignment. Other eligible attendees are
Airman Family and Readiness Center personnel, Reserve Component Unit Representatives, TRICARE staff, and other
personnel who have TRICARE outreach responsibilities, newly assigned TOPA Flight OIC/NCOICs. There are no
prerequisites for this course; however, this course is not intended for those personnel who have attended or other similar
courses.

1.1.1.3. The TRICARE University, http://www.tricare.mil/tricareu/default.aspx is the TRICARE Management Activity
(TMA) distance learning training platform for various support functions (BCACs, DCAOs, etc.).

 1.1.2. Debt Collections Assistance Officer (DCAO) (STS Item 21). Personnel assigned as DCAOs should use the
following TPs to become proficient in the tasks associated with new responsibilities.

1.1.2.1. Health Benefits Website, https://kx.afms.mil/kxweb/dotmil/kj.do?functionalArea=AFMOAHealthBenefits
provides the latest information and tools on Health Plan Management. Some information on this website is password
protected; therefore, personnel will be required to apply for an account in order to gain access.

1.1.3. Health Plan Analyses (STS Item 22). Personnel assigned duties within the scope health plan analyses, use the
following TPs to become proficient in the tasks associated with new responsibilities. References: Step-by-Step Guide
for Population Health, DoD Population Health Improvement Plan and Guide, and A Guide to Population Health.




                                                            59
1.1.4. MEB/PEBLO Clerk (STS Item 32). Personnel assigned as MEB/PEBLO Clerks should thoroughly review AFI
10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions, AFI 36-3212, Physical Evaluation For Retention, Retirement, And Separation, AFI
41-210, Patient Administration Functions, AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, and Physical Evaluation
Board Liaison Officer Guide and the DES Pilot Operations Manual, which provides comprehensive information about
MEBs and the Disability Evaluation System (DES). The PEBLO Guide can be found on the Health Benefits Website,
https://kx.afms.mil/kxweb/dotmil/kjFolderList.do?folder=Toolkits&functionalArea=AFMOAHealthBenefits
The measurement of the TP is the responsibility of the using MTF.

1.1.5. PEBLO Training Workshop/Conference. The PEBLO workshop is conducted annually and is sponsored by
AFPC, Disability Operations Branch. This informal course was developed to provide advanced, supplemental PEBLO
training not currently offered in the 3- and 5-skill level Health Services Management TPs. Subject matter curriculum
incorporates fundamental aspects of DoD level disability evaluation system directives as well as specific service
administrative requirements that address appropriate case documentation requirements; necessity for timely case
submissions; PEBLO-patient counseling; review-in-lieu of MEB guidelines; and other general MEB management
functions required of PEBLOs at Physical Evaluation Board referral MTFs.

1.1.6. Integrated Disability Evaluation System (IDES). Personnel assigned duties within or oversight of the IDES
Program should thoroughly review the information provided on the Health Benefits website,
https://kx.afms.mil/kxweb/dotmil/kj.do?functionalArea=AFMOAHealthBenefits. The IDES Operations Manual
provides an in-depth review of the processes and responsibilities associated with the management of the IDES program.

1.1.7. Patient Administration Website (STS Item 24). The patient administration website,
https://kx.afms.mil/patientadmin provides the latest information and tools for managing related functions. Some
information on this website is password protected; therefore, personnel will be required to apply for an account in order
to gain access.

1.1.8. Medical Records Tracking, Retirement and Retrieval (MRTR2) System (STS Items 24 and 25). The MRTR2
website provides access to CBT for electronic tracking and retirement of records. The training is required for all
personnel responsible for retiring medical records and can be accessed at https://kx.afms.mil/pad/mrtr2/.

1.1.9. The Special Needs Identification and Assignment Coordination (SNIAC) Program. The SNIAC website,
https://www.airforcefap.af.mil/skins/affap/home.aspx provides the latest information and tools on the SNIAC program.
Personnel who perform duties that are part of the overall SNIAC process, e.g., the Family Member Relocation
Coordinator, should access this site as well as apply for a password to access the Q-Base online tool.

1.1.10. Working Information Systems to Determine Optimal Management (WISDOM) Course. Stakeholder
expectations require astute management of the delivery organizations in the MHS, along with the formulation of policy
at all levels that support corporate goals. Data-driven decision-making is key to successful performance. This 40-hour
course reviews the basic processes of management decision making, with emphasis on the use and limitations of
contemporary MHS data and data systems. Although the course uses examples set in a typical MTF integrated delivery
system, the concepts and tools are equally applicable for other decision-makers, entities, and command levels in the
MHS. The target audience for this course is novice to mid-level ARS Bridge (M2) users who use MHS data for
analysis. Go to: http://www.tricare.mil/ocfo/bea/wisdom.cfm.

1.1.11. TRICARE Financial Management Education Program (TFMEP) Basic Course. TMA presents the TFMEP as a
means to provide training on current and evolving TRICARE financial management subject areas. Target areas are
those where the training and information is generally not available in other courses or workshops. TFMEP course
material promotes the ability of managers, at all levels within the MHS, to work with various kinds of financial
information available within the current DoD workload, managed care, and cost accounting systems. The program also
addresses the sources from which data can be obtained, data quality management, and specific TRICARE software
applications that can either utilize or produce some of the relevant cost data. Attendees are introduced to outsourcing
alternatives. These principles, coupled with the overarching MHS business plan and budget model techniques, will
enable individuals to realize the right balance between the Direct Care System and Private Sector Care System. Go to:
http://www.tricare.mil/ocfo/privatesector/tfmep/index.cfm.

1.1.12. Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) Patient Movement Requirements Center (PMRC) Training. AE
clerks/technicians and anyone else responsible for patient reporting for movement should complete Transportation

                                                           60
Command (TRANSCOM) Regulating And Command & Control (C2) Evacuation System (TRAC2ES) system training.
This five-day course will train student with hands-on interactive instruction. Class size is up to ten students, the
optimum number for effective instruction. TDY costs are the responsibility of the unit. If a significant number of
individuals need instruction, the facility can pay TDY costs to have an instructor from the Office of the TRANSCOM
Surgeon General to teach the course at their home station.

1.1.12.1. This lesson provides background information for all primary participants using the TRAC2ES system. Upon
completion, students will have an understanding of the use and function of the TRAC2ES Automated Information
System (AIS) and its relationship to the patient movement process. TRAC2ES Enterprise refers to the umbrella system
that includes an AIS and non-automated (non-AIS or manual) tasks to support patient movement. TRAC2ES' mission is
to link originating and destination MTFs with medical evacuation conveyances and C2 infrastructure to maintain
continuous global awareness and management of the patient movement system. It will be used the same way in peace,
contingencies, or war. This training focuses on the TRAC2ES AIS, but also includes some non-AIS tasks. You may
contact GPMRC for a copy of the TRAC2ES CBT CD-ROM. Visit https://www.trac2es.transcom.mil for more
information.

1.1.12.2. The 4A0X1 Patient Movement JQS was developed to standardize and document minimum administrative
duties and task qualifications relevant to the aeromedical evacuation process.

1.1.13. Health Care Optimization/Operational Medicine Seminar. The Health Care Optimization/Operational Medicine
Seminar course is targeted toward newly acquired primary care managers (PCM) and PCM Nurses (46N3) for training
in Population Health, Health Care Optimization, and Operational Health. Group Practice Managers and Clinical
Flight/Squadron Commanders are also encouraged to attend. Civilians filling PCM or nurse roles should be given equal
priority. If class seats have not been filled within 30 days of the start of a class, PCM technicians (4As & 4Ns) may
attend on a space available basis. This course includes the following topics: Overview of the Military Health Service,
Principals of Population Health, PCM Team Function and Process Improvement, Evidence-Based Medicine/Disease
Management/Clinical Preventative Services, PIMR Overview, Clinical Effectiveness/Efficiency,
Demand Forecasting & Template Management, Physical Exams and Standards, Introduction to Occupational Medicine,
Common occupationally-related injuries/illnesses, Fetal Protection Program, Hearing Conservation Program,
Deployment Surveillance. Prerequisites for PCM Technicians (enlisted and civilian): 5-skill level or above, with at least
3 - 6 months experience in primary care.

1.1.14. AFMS Access Improvement Seminar, 3 day. The Health Benefits Branch, Air Force Medical Support Agency,
continues to lead the Military Health System as experts in the field of access improvement training. The AFMS Access
Improvement Seminars provide access managers with comprehensive instruction so that they may gain the most up-to-
date access improvement information in the areas of access policy, access data analysis, Family Health Initiative, access
to care (ATC) performance measurements, demand management, population/enrollment management clinic, appointing
and schedule management, appointing information systems management, referral management, and process
improvement. Related decision support tools will also be demonstrated and explained. Students will be given many
opportunities to ask questions and interface with the faculty and with each other.

Appointing Information Systems hands-on Training Course. The course objectives are to provide students with the
detailed knowledge of the various appointing functions, the operations and the management of MHS appointing
information systems, primarily the Composite Health Care System, (CHCS). Hands-on training, lectures and practical
exercises will allow students to gain the knowledge they need to make improvements in appointing information
systems’ operations and improve access once they return to their MTFs. Specifically, there will be training/classes on
template, schedule, file and table building and management; appointing system functions operations; consult tracking;
TRICARE Online appointing system data quality and pertinent aspects of MTF appointing/access data flow and
management.


1.1.16. International Health Specialist (IHS). The IHS website, https://kx.afms.mil/afihs provides the latest
information and tools on the IHS program. The AFMS developed this program to support the DoD's Joint Vision,
which states that today's joint force must be prepared to operate with multinational forces, governmental and non-
governmental agencies, as well as with international organizations. The IHS program helps identify those with
language, cultural, and/or geopolitical skills, and provides a database of medics with capabilities tailor-made for specific
missions. It consists of officer/enlisted members who fulfill IHS duties on a full time basis and also those who have

                                                            61
elected to be included in a database pool from which members are selected for IHS positions or to augment specific
missions. IHS personnel are expected to be or to become proficient in a second language and to become knowledgeable
of the political, military, economic, medical and cultural aspects of the country/region associated with their second
language. In addition to becoming an expert in their area of responsibility and establishing host nation relationships,
IHS personnel will play a pivotal role in supporting medical planning operations and deployment execution. IHS
members are eligible to participate in the Rosetta Stone online language learning center to assist in becoming more
proficient in one of 20 languages offered. An IHS SEI is awarded to those who have met necessary criteria.

1.1.17. RSV Training. The RSV training tasks, which are identified in the RSV database located at
https://afms.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp are the catalyst for training program development.

1.1.18. Uniformed Business Office (UBO). Personnel performing UBO functions should refer to the DoD UBO
website, http://tricare.osd.mil/ocfo/mcfs/ubo/about.cfm.

PART II, SECTION D – TRAINING COURSE INDEX

1. Purpose. This section identifies some training courses available for the specialty. For a complete list go to:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/default1.asp.

1.1. Air Force In-Residence Courses:

Course Number            TITLE                                       DURATION            LOCATION
L8ABP4A031 01AA          Health Services Management                  36 days             METC - San Antonio, TX
                         Apprentice Course
L3AZR4A071 08AA          Medical Expense and Performance             10 days             METC - San Antonio, TX
                         Reporting System Course
L7OZT4XXX 08AA           Health Care Optimization/Operational        4 days              Various Locations
                         Seminar (Mobile)
L3OZR41A3 08AA           Group Practice Manager's Orientation        5 days              METC - San Antonio, TX
                         (In-residence)

L7OZT41A3 08AA           Group Practice Manager's Course             5 days              Various Locations
                         (Mobile)

L3ORR4XXX OOCB           Aeromedical Evacuation Contingency          5 days              Camp Bullis, TX
                         Operations Training (AECOT)

LCORP4XXX                Expeditionary Medical Support               5 days              Camp Bullis, TX
OODA                     (EMEDS)

L3OZR4000-00BC           Medical Readiness Management                10 days             METC - San Antonio, TX
                         Course

E7AST1C351 OOCC          Status of Resources and Training            3 days              Various Locations
                         Systems (SORTS) (Mobile Available)

L3ORR4XXX                Contingency Aeromedical Staging             5 days              Camp Bullis, TX
OOBA                     Facility (CASF)
L5O2A4XXX 09AA           Homeland Security Medical                   5 days              Various Locations
                         Professionals Course
L5O2N4XXX 08AB           Joint Medical Planners Course               15 days             Bethesda, MD
L3AZR4A271 08AA          Medical Facilities Management               10 days             METC - San Antonio, TX
L5O204XXX 08CA           AF Medical Service Access                   3 days              Various Locations
                         Improvement Seminar




                                                            62
1.2. AF Institute for Advanced Distributive Learning:

COURSE NUMBER           TITLE
CDC 4A051               Health Services Correspondence AF
                        Management Journeyman

CDC 4A071               Health Services Correspondence AF
                        Management Craftsman

ZZ133097                AF Emergency Response Operations (AERO) –
                        Command and Control Course
ZZ133096                AF Emergency Response Operations (AERO) –
                        Introduction Course



1.3. Exportable Courses. There are no exportable courses at this time.

1.4. Courses under Development/Revision. Minor changes are being made to the apprentice course.

1.5. Health Services Management Courses. Health Services Management courses can be viewed on the Internet at:
https://www.afms.mil/chiefscorner.

PART II, SECTION E – MAJCOM-UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

1. Air National Guard (ANG).

1.1. Purpose: This section applies to all Health Services Management specialty personnel assigned to Air National
Guard units.

1.2. Proficiency Training.

1.2.1. Prior to attending the Health Services Management Apprentice Course, ANG 4A031 personnel should complete
duty-section proficiency training.

1.2.2. Proficiency training will be accomplished immediately following graduation from the Health Services
Management Apprentice Course.

1.2.3. The ANG 4A0X1 Functional Manager may approve on a case-by-case basis 30 additional days for proficiency
training.

1.2.4. The member will forward a copy of his/her technical school certificate to their unit of assignment. The ANG unit
will then initiate upgrade action using AF Form 2096, Classification On-The-Job Training Action to award the 3-skill
level and enter the apprentice in the appropriate training status code (TSC) ―B‖ or ―F‖.

1.3. Formal School Waivers. NGB/SGAT may grant waivers on a case-by-case basis. (OPR: NGB/SGAT, 3500
Fetchet Ave., Andrews AFB, MD 20762-5157)

PART II, SECTION F – DOCUMENTATION OF TRAINING

12. The Air Force Training Record (AFTR) serves as the single, automated repository for all medical enlisted specialty
training. Consult the most current AFTR training message for detailed instructions regarding automated training
documentation requirements.

13. Master Training Plan (MTP) (reference AFI 36-2201).



                                                          63
13.1. The Master Training Plan is a reference guide developed for each section that includes all facets of training for
individuals assigned. It is to be used as a reference source for the type of training and documentation pertaining to each
assigned member. The MTP is used to standardize training and to provide an overview of the training process for the
duty section. The MTP is also used as a means to reduce the amount of paperwork previously required during the
training process.

13.2. The Master Training Plan is an overview of training for the duty section. It should include all documents involved
in the training process for the duty section. Training will vary from section to section and person to person, but there
are certain documents that will be a standard requirement for all MTPs. They are listed below.

13.2.1. MTL.

13.2.2. CFETP.

13.2.3. Locally developed AF Form 797s.

13.2.4. Milestones for tasks and CDC completion (refer to AFI 36-2201).

13.2.5. Unit Specific Orientation Checklist.

13.2.6. Job descriptions/performance standards.

13.2.7. QTP required to perform peacetime/wartime duties.




                                                           64
