DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 21AX
Headquarters US Air Force                                                      Parts I and II
Washington DC 20330-1030                                                      25 July 2013



             AFSC 21AX
   AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE OFFICER




             CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
               AND TRAINING PLAN




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
             Air Force Maintenance Badge Heraldry
The design of the falcon is a replica of the maintenance falcon located in
 the National Cathedral at Washington DC. The falcon symbolizes the
      airborne strength by the Air Force and made possible by the
  maintenance of aircraft, munitions, and communications-electronics
equipment. In its talons, the falcon is holding a bomb and a generic 21st
 century aircraft. They are crossed to show the interrelationship of the
career fields. The three levels of the award are signified by the addition
   of a star centered above the falcon for the senior level and the star
           surrounded by an olive wreath for the master level.




The aircraft, streamlined to depict a 21st century aircraft, is symbolic of
 all aircraft maintained by the personnel who will wear the badge into
the 21st century. The aircraft has three leading edges, which represent
  the three enlisted maintenance specialties: aircraft, munitions, and
 communications-electronics. The personnel, like the leading edges of
  the aircraft, work together to support the flying mission. The bomb,
    streamlined to depict a modern munition, symbolizes the primary
mission of the Air Force maintainer to make sure they put the bombs on
 target. The field is without obstruction and depicts a free sky and the
  olive wreath surrounding the badge, symbolizes the peace, which we
                defend through professional maintenance.

                                     1
                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                         AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE OFFICER
                                    AFSC 21AX
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART I

 PREFACE                                                                       4

 Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                                 6

 Section A, General Information                                                11
     Purpose of the CFETP
     CFETP Uses
     Coordination and Approval

 Section B, Career Field Description, Training and Progression                 13
     The Aircraft Maintenance Officer Career Field
     The Maintenance Officer and the Deliberate Continuum of Learning (DCoL)
     U&TW Training Decisions
     Career Path/Training Flow

 Section C, Proficiency Training Requirements                                  21
     Purpose
     21A1 and 21A3 Specialty Qualifications

 Section D, Resource Constraints                                               22


 PART II
 Section A, Course Training Standards                                          23
     Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level requirements

 Section B, Support Materials                                                  24
      Purpose
      AFSC Awarding Courses
      Non-AFSC Awarding Courses
      Aircraft Maintenance Supplementary Courses
      Field Training Detachment Courses (FTD)
      Exportable Courses
      Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT)
      Follow-on MAJCOM/Unit Courses
      Department of Defense Courses

 Section C, Support Material                                                   27
     Follow-on Unit Training
     Maintenance Officer Training Task List
         21A3 certification requirements
         Senior certification requirements
         Master certification requirements
                                                2
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS CONTINUED

  Section D, MAJCOM Unique Requirements                                     38
     Suggested 797 Workcenter Tasks

  Tables
     Table 1.   The Deliberate Continuum of Learning building blocks        14
     Table 2.   Grandfather Plan                                            16
     Table 3.   21A Training Flow (Accessions)                              18
     Table 4.   21A Training Flow (Cross Train)                             18
     Table 5.   Aircraft Maintenance Officer Career Progression             20

  Attachments
     Attachment 1:   Resident Course Training Standards (CTS) Qualitative
     Requirements                                                           44
     Attachment 2:   CTS, Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course (AMOC)        45
     Attachment 3:   CTS, Accelerated Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course
     (AAMOC)                                                                51
     Attachment 4:   CTS, Maintenance Officer Intermediate Course (MOIC)    54




OPR: 363 TRS/TRR, GS12 Jason Durst, DSN 736-2996
Certified by: USAF/A4LF, Lt Col Reggie A. Christianson
Supersedes: CFETP 21AX, dated 1 March 2009
Pages: 56


                                                  3
PREFACE

1. Highly Trained Aircraft Maintenance Officers. A highly trained, motivated officer corps is the Air
Force’s key resource in meeting challenges of the future. The Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF)
concept is dependent on logistics in general and aircraft maintenance in particular for mission success.
Because of this dependency, it is essential the Air Force have a fully trained and qualified Aircraft
Maintenance officer corps. The Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) for Aircraft
Maintenance Officer provides the framework and guidance necessary for planning, developing,
managing, and conducting a career field training program. The plan documents a “training roadmap” for
the career field. This roadmap identifies mandatory qualification and training certification requirements
officers must receive during their time in aircraft maintenance. This plan applies to members of the Air
Reserve Component (ARC); however, specific timeline requirements for certification may be extended to
accommodate the unique differences in time availability of ARC members.

1.1. This CFETP is a comprehensive core education and training document, which identifies life-cycle
education and training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task requirements for
the Aircraft Maintenance Officer Specialty. CFETP provides a clear career path to success and instills
rigor in all aspects of career field training.

2. The CFETP. The CFETP consists of two parts that are used to plan, manage, and control training
within the 21AX career field.

2.1. Part I is in four sections and provides information necessary for overall management of training in the
career field. Section A explains how to use the plan; Section B identifies career progression information,
duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and a career field flowchart; Section C associates each skill
level with qualifications (knowledge, training, education, experience, etc.); Section D indicates resource
constraints in formal/unit training, i.e., funds, manpower, equipment, facilities.

2.2. Part II includes four sections. Section A identifies the Course Training Standards (CTS) which
includes duties and tasks to support AETC and unit training requirements; Section B lists all mandatory
AF in-residence, field, HQ AU/A4L, and exportable courses used to support training; Section C identifies
available support materials Section D is used to identify MAJCOM unique training requirements. At
unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with
the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using the CFETP. The following individuals must utilize this CFETP to ensure Aircraft
Maintenance Officers receive training and skill-enhancing experience at appropriate stages in their
development. Additionally, the following individuals below must comply with but are not limited to the
following duties and responsibilities:

3.1. Individual: Individual will complete CFETP core requirements within 24 months of being assigned
to a 21A position to achieve upgrade to 21A3. Group commanders, may extend this requirement. Check
records to ensure 21A3 certification has been awarded.

3.2. Unit Training Manager: Responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2201. Responsibilities include
loading member’s CFETP into electronic training records (TBA) and assisting the supervisor and
commander with tracking/managing. Grant supervisors and commanders access to member’s electronic
training record.




                                                      4
3.3. Supervisor/Operations Officer: Supervisors and operations officers will ensure officers in training
understand fundamentals of each CFETP task, manage and control officer progression through career field,
and document training in CFETP or electronic equivalent, except in the case of performance based tasks
where it may be signed off by a trainer or instructor. Determine work centers an officer will visit, identify
local aircraft and equipment training tasks, and review training progress with trainees quarterly and
document review. Verify pre-task/task/post-task actions are included for follow-on training, identify tasks
in addition to core tasks, and certify completion of training.

3.4. Squadron Commander: Squadron commanders, or equivalent, are responsible for ensuring their
assigned officers meet the requirements of the CFETP. Squadron commander (or next higher authority)
will certify the officer’s progression by documenting task completion on the “Training Completion
Certification” sheet in the CFETP or electronic equivalent. Award the 21A3 and senior certification,
ensuring 21A3 certification has been awarded and updated in an officer’s personnel record.

3.5. Group Commander: Group commanders will monitor the effectiveness of maintenance training;
notify MAJCOMs of formal training shortfalls to ensure timely correction and redirection of formal
training emphasis and ensures the best possible training environment for maintenance officers. Award
Master Certification.




                                                     5
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

AAMOC. Accelerated Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course.

Advanced Training. A formal course which provides officers who are already fully qualified in their Air
Force Specialty Code (AFSC) with additional skills/knowledge to complement expertise in the career
field. Training is for career officers at the qualified and staff level of an AFSC.

AFCFM. Air Force Career Field Manager.

AFCOMAC. Air Force Combat Ammunition Center. The 9th Munitions Squadron at Beale AFB,
CA administers the Air Force Combat Ammunition Center (AFCOMAC) training program. This Air
Force-level course was developed to provide the Air Force munitions community with advanced training
in mass combat ammunition planning and production techniques. It uses a combination of in-depth
classroom instruction combined with a four-day intensive practical exercise (IRON FLAG) using live
munitions in a realistic, bare-base scenario.

AFIT. Air Force Institute of Technology. AFIT offers Masters Degrees in Logistics Management,
Acquisition Logistics, Supply Management, and Transportation Management. Ph.D. programs are also
available. AFIT School of Systems and Logistics (AFIT/LS) also provides professional continuing
education courses (PCE).

AMMOC. Aircraft and Munitions Maintenance Officer Courses. Refers to the maintenance officer
schoolhouse at Sheppard AFB; encompasses AMOC, Accelerated AMOC, MOFC, CMOC, NMOC
MOIC and NAC.

AMOC. Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course. Course taught by AETC to new Aircraft Maintenance
Officer Accessions or cross flowing officers.

AMMOS. Advanced Maintenance and Munitions Operations School. An advanced maintenance
course for intermediate level Maintenance Officers and SNCOs.

AMWC. Air Mobility Warfare Center. AMC organizations set up to train, test, and educate our forces
in all aspects of air mobility.

ARC. Air Reserve Component. Combination of Air Force Reserve Command and Air National Guard
forces.

ART. Air Reserve Technician. Combination of civil servant and reservist.

BDE. Basic Developmental Education. Specific educational opportunities inside the AF to include but
not limited to Air and Space Basic Course and Squadron Officer School.

CFETP. Career Field Education and Training Plan. A comprehensive, multipurpose document that
encapsulates the entire spectrum of training for a career field or specialty. It outlines a logical growth
plan that includes training resources and makes career field training identifiable, eliminates duplication,
and is fiscally prudent.




                                                     6
CLS. Contractor Logistics Support. Contractor support includes the cost of contractor labor,
materials, and overhead incurred in providing all or part of the logistics support to a weapon system,
subsystem, or associated support equipment. Contract maintenance is performed by commercial
organizations using contractor personnel, material, equipment, and facilities or government-furnished
material, equipment, and facilities. Contractor support may be dedicated to one or multiple levels of
maintenance and may take the form of interim contractor support (ICS), where the services are provided
temporarily (usually in the initial phases of a system's operation), or contractor logistics support (CLS),
where the support extends over the operational life of the system. Other contractor support may be
purchased for engineering and technical services.

Continuation Training. Follow-on unit training.

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements for everyone within an
Air Force specialty regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or
in general across the AFSC.

CTS. Course Training Standard. A specialized document that identifies the tasks and/or knowledge
requirements and level of proficiency provided within a specific course of training. The document serves
as a contract between AETC and its customers. It standardizes and controls the quality of officer training.

DA. Developmental Assignment. A deliberate approach to gaining varied "hands on" experience to
help prepare for senior leadership positions by focusing on specific competencies to be strengthened
through each assignment.

DAU. Defense Acquisition University. Provides mandatory, assignment-specific, and continuing
education courses for military and civilian acquisition personnel within the Department of Defense.

DCoL. Deliberate Continuum of Learning. A purposeful education and focused training roadmap that
supports career path progression across key logistics mission sets to include deployment & distribution,
supply chain, repair network integration, life cycle logistics and joint logistics. The training roadmap
includes courses that are available to all maintenance officers at the appropriate time in their career.

DE. Developmental Education. Critical component of the force development construct and represents a
large investment in the continuum of our Airmen's growth. DE is a deliberate process for developing our
future leaders through traditional military education, advanced academic degrees or experiential
assignments with industry or academic institutions.

DOD. Department of Defense.

DT. Developmental Team.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer based training, paper text, interactive video or
courseware, and other necessary means to supplement training.

FEQ. Field Evaluation Questionnaire. FEQs solicit feedback from supervisors and/or graduates to
determine if the graduates were trained as specified in the course training standard.

GAS. Graduate Assessment Survey. The GAS gathers customer feedback on AF graduates from
designated initial skill courses.


                                                     7
IAW. In Accordance With.

IDE. Intermediate Developmental Education. Specific education including (but not limited to) Air
Command and Staff College, US Army Command and General Staff College, College of Naval
Command and Staff, Marine Corps Command and Staff College, USAF Academy AOC Masters
Program, Air Force Institute of Technology and other identified advanced academic degree programs.

Intermediate Training. A formal course that builds on previous education & training venues and
experience. Focuses on preparing officers for duties commensurate with squadron Director of Operations
and beyond.

ILS. Integrated Logistics Support. Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) is the disciplined and unified
management of the technical logistic disciplines that plan and develop Logistics Support Requirements
for military forces and which will ensure System product Quality in terms of Reliability, Availability,
Maintainability, Testability (RAMT).

IPZ. In the Promotion Zone. e.g., primary zone.

IST. Initial Skills Training. IST is a formal AETC resident course, which results in award of the entry
skill level.

ITP. Individual Training Plan. Individual’s plan that is intended to be a complete history of past
training and current qualifications. Supervisors will ensure all documentation is accurate and
comprehensive. Use Training Business Area (TBA) to document training. TBA reflects past and current
qualifications and is used to determine training requirements.

MCOC. Maintenance Course for Operational Commanders. This CSAF-directed course provides
training for field grade Air Force mission ready officers (aeronautically rated) selected for assignment as
operations squadron commanders or director of operations in an operational flying unit. The scope of
training includes subject material covering maintenance management and philosophy, munitions, fleet
health management/sortie production, workforce management, maintenance support, expeditionary
operations, and maintenance resource management with a focus on Air Force core competencies in
today's transformational environment.

MFM. MAJCOM Functional Manager. Manage career fields for a MAJCOM and serve as the
MAJCOM liaisons for their respective AFCFMs. MFMs monitor the health and manning of their career
fields within their command and elevate concerns to the AFCFMs. They manage command training for
their career field and coordinate associated issues with the MAJCOM staff and AFCFMs. They
disseminate Air Force and career field policies and program requirements affecting their career field
throughout the MAJCOM. They coordinate with AFPC to distribute personnel throughout the MAJCOM
to ensure proper command prioritization of allocated and assigned personnel resources. They provide
functional and subject-matter expertise to AETC training managers to develop new training programs or
improve existing ones.

MGRC. Mission Generation Road Course. This is a CSAF-directed program that travels base to base.
This AETC-taught and managed 2-day course is facilitated by a team consisting of one maintenance
officer and one aeronautically rated officer. The program objectives are to facilitate communications and
understanding between ops/mx, improve officer/enlisted mentoring, and create a team that understands
each other’s TTPs and the balance between ops/mx requirements.


                                                     8
Mission Generation. Includes responsibility for on-aircraft maintenance and may include off-aircraft
maintenance; preparing aircraft for flight, routine flight line maintenance, refueling operations, towing,
servicing hydraulics and oil, and launching and recovering aircraft. Additionally, mission generation
includes responsibility for the weekly, monthly, and long-range flying maintenance and training
schedules, aircraft utilization, certifying air-worthiness, and monitoring aircraft modifications and retrofit
programs.

MOIC. Maintenance Officer Intermediate Course. An advanced course taught by AETC to Aircraft,
Munitions, and Missile Maintenance Officers.

MSEP. Maintenance Standardization Evaluation Program. The Maintenance Standardization and
Evaluation Program (MSEP) is designed to be a feedback system for maintenance leaders, supervisors
and workers. The program permits the maintenance group commander (MXG/CC) to focus QA efforts on
specifically known or suspected problem areas and is a dynamic assessment system designed to be
flexible.

MTL. Master Task List. A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center and
consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms 797 (as a minimum). Should
include tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.

PIP. Product Improvement Program. A conscientiously applied process of identification, analysis,
and corrective action of product deficiencies. In this process the user identifies deficiencies in air and
space equipment and informs the responsible single manager. The single manager analyzes and corrects
these discrepancies by either: Improving procedures and Modifying or replacing equipment.

Qualification Training. Training designed to expose officers to job-related tasks and concepts. This
training also serves to qualify officers on tasks identified in Part II of this CFETP.

Repair Network. Includes off-aircraft maintenance; repairing parts and components, bench testing and
checking parts, rebuilding parts, engine repair and spare utilization, fuel cell and fuel system related
repairs, heavy maintenance and inspection functions, and aircraft corrosion control program.

SDE. Senior Developmental Education. Specific educational opportunities inside and outside the AF
to include but not limited to Air War College, National Defense University, Industrial College of the
Armed Forces, Army War College and Naval War College.

SLMG. Senior Leaders’ Mission Generation Course. A Chief of Staff initiative developed to educate
wing leadership on aircraft maintenance, operations, and flightline support in mission generation. Its
objectives include: strengthen the relationship and teamwork between operations, maintenance, and
support; deepen insight into unit operations, maintenance, and support activities; and focus attention on
policy, procedures, training, discipline, and enforcement.

SOS. Squadron Officer School.

TAFCS. Total Active Federal Commissioned Service.

TBA. Training Business Area. Web application that provides supervisors access to virtual training
products, such as CFETPs, Air Force job qualification standards, as well as master and individualized
training plans.

                                                      9
TO. Technical Order.

TOS. Time on Station.

Total Force. The collective components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the United
States Air Force.

TR. Training Reference.

UGT. Upgrade Training. Mandatory training, which leads to the award of a higher skill level.

U&TW. Utilization and Training Workshop. A forum led by the AFCFM and AETC/DOOM of
MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers (who are the focal point for career field
education and training within each MAJCOM), Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training
personnel that establish career field training requirements.




                                                   10
PART I

SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP contains and provides information for career field functional
managers, commanders, supervisors, trainers, and the technical training centers to plan, develop, manage
and conduct a robust career field training program. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and continuation training. The CFETP has several purposes.

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, develop, manage, and conduct a career field training program.
Also, it is used to ensure established training is provided at the appropriate point in an officer’s career.

1.2. Identifies requirements for each skill level and recommends training for each phase of an officer’s
career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and provides the
training medium.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field training
program.

2. CFETP uses. MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM) and supervisors at all levels will use this plan
to ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training program is instituted for each officer.

2.1. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) develops/revises formal resident, and exportable
training based on user requirements documented in this CFETP. AETC is responsible for developing
procurement and acquisition strategies to obtain the resources required to provide training identified in the
CFETP. The AETC Course Training Manager (AETC CTM) and the AFCFM are the custodians of this
CFETP and ensures HQ AFPC/DPPAT receives approved revisions for publication. The AETC CTM is
responsible for notifying HQ AETC to index the CFETP in http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

2.2. The AFCFM will schedule and chair a Utilization and Training Workshop at a minimum every three
years to address the training needs of the career field.

2.3. The MAJCOM functional manager will ensure training programs complement the CFETP
mandatory initial skills and upgrade requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by AETC and
unit resident training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM-developed training to support this
AFSC must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate available training.

2.4. The CFETP or electronic equivalent is the training plan used by the 21A officer to determine training
requirements and understand the career field paths and opportunities available. Each 21A officer will
complete the mandatory follow-on training requirements specified in this plan and as specified by the unit
and document it in TBA.

2.5. Cross flow officers will maintain a 21A CFETP while in the 21A cross flow and accomplish all core
tasks identified in this CFETP, as well as locally identified mandatory items. Recommend officers
returning to other career fields continue to maintain this record for future requirements.

3. Coordination and Approval. The CFETP is approved and maintained by the Air Force Career Field
Manager (AFCFM) in accordance with (IAW) AFI36-2201, Air Force Training Program Career Field
                                                      11
Education and Training. Forward recommended changes to the AFCFM, HQ USAF/A4LF. MAJCOM
requests for additional training must either be accompanied by funding or must be satisfied within
existing resources. The AFCFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM representatives and AETC training
personnel will identify and coordinate career field training requirements. The AETC CTM for AFSC 21A
will coordinate with the AFCFM to initiate an annual MAJCOM review of this document to ensure
currency and accuracy.

4. Use of TBA or approved electronic training record is mandatory for all active, guard, and reserve
munitions personnel to document CFETP requirements. Contact your MAJCOM 21A functional if
unable to comply with this mandate.




                                                    12
PART I

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD DESCRIPTION, TRAINING AND PROGRESSION

1. The Aircraft Maintenance Officer Career Field. The 21AX AFSC includes aircraft maintenance.
Paragraphs 1.1 through 1.2.7 are from the most current AFOCD IAW AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military
Personnel.

1.1. Specialty Description. Leads, trains, and equips personnel supporting aircraft sustainment and
operations. Manages maintenance and modification of aircraft and associated equipment. Administers
aircraft maintenance programs and resources. Directs aircraft maintenance production, staff activity, and
related materiel programs. Assesses unit capability and advises senior leadership. Related DoD
Occupational Groups: 240400.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

1.2.1. Directs aircraft maintenance -mission generation and repair network- activities. Maintains
workforce discipline and responds to personnel issues while balancing workforce availability and skill
levels with operational requirements. Works with functional managers to develop, formulate, and manage
fiscal resources. Instills maintenance discipline, security awareness and force protection concepts.
Ensures accuracy of documentation, i.e. aircraft forms and automated systems. Ensures adherence to
technical data, policy, procedures and safe maintenance practices.

1.2.2. Develops, coordinates, and executes flying and maintenance schedules. Manages aircraft
configuration; daily aircraft servicing, weapons loading, launch, recovery, and repair; periodic aircraft
maintenance inspections; and flight line safety and foreign object damage (FOD) prevention and dropped
object programs (DOP). Manages overall aircraft fleet health and ensures aircraft availability to execute
mission requirements. Analyzes aircraft maintenance indicators to identify trends and initiates corrective
actions.

1.2.3. Directs maintenance activities that may include aircraft propulsion, pneudraulics, egress, fuel
systems, electro-environmental, Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL) and avionics
systems. Also may include management of aerospace ground equipment, structural repair, low-
observable repair, corrosion control, machine, welding, inspection, aero-repair, crash, damaged, disabled
aircraft recovery, non-destructive inspection, and off-equipment munitions and armament suspension
equipment.

1.2.4. Manages quality assurance, maintenance training, budget and resource management, analysis,
facilities, shared resources to include end-of-runway and weapons load training. Manages plans and
programs, modifications, and modernizations requirements.

1.2.5. Formulates maintenance plans and policies to meet unit tasking. Assesses unit maintenance
capability in support of combat related operational plans and provides inputs for capability assessments
for each plan. Defines aircraft maintenance procedures and requirements in response to emergency or
contingency situations.


                                                    13
1.2.6. Coordinates key core logistics requirements supporting aircraft maintenance operations.
Establishes support requirements for supply requisition, repair cycle, delivery, combat support, ground
and aerial port transportation, base support plans, and munitions requirements.

1.2.7. Directs and manages wholesale logistics life cycle sustainment support. Coordinates production
schedules to include induction and selling systems. Defines technical problems and economic factors
related to research and development, and system operational data to evaluate programs, assess trends, and
identify improvements and deficiencies. Manages weapons system programs, funding of depot
maintenance workloads, and transportation distribution systems. Manages logistics tests and evaluation
on new acquisition programs and aircraft modifications.

2. The Maintenance Officer and the Deliberate Continuum of Learning (DCoL). Quality training
and timely progression through skill levels play an extremely important role in the Air Force’s ability to
accomplish its mission. Therefore, it is essential that senior leaders involved in training do their part to
plan, develop, manage, conduct, and evaluate an effective and efficient training program. The guidance
provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure officers receive focused and appropriately-timed education
and training throughout their careers. Table 1 is a visual depiction of the building blocks for the
Maintenance Officer DCoL and the following narrative provides guidance on how to build a well-rounded
maintenance officer.

                   Table 1. The Deliberate Continuum of Learning building blocks




                                                    14
2.1. Skill Certification.

2.1.1. 21A3 Certification. Representative grades are normally O-1 through O-3. IAW Air Force Officer
Classification Directory, the following are mandatory for 21A3 certification: completion of a formal
AETC entry-level training course; 24 months managing aircraft maintenance activities; and completion of
the education and training requirements specified in the Aircraft Maintenance Officer Training Task List.

2.1.2. Senior Certification. Representative grades are normally O-3 through O-4. An officer will be
eligible for the Senior level at the 7-year point in specialty (time spent outside of career field in positions
not coded as 21AX does not count toward award of senior certification unless waivered by the group
commander or equivalent), provided he/she has completed the education and training requirements
specified in the Aircraft Maintenance Officer Training Task List.

2.1.3. Master Certification. Representative grades are normally O-4 and higher. An officer will be
eligible for the Master certification at the 15-year point in the specialty (time spent outside of career field
in positions not coded as 21AX does not count toward award of master certification unless waivered by
the group commander or equivalent), provided he/she has completed the requirements specified in the
Aircraft Maintenance Officer Training Task List.

2.2. Career Progression

2.2.1. Entry Level. IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program Training Management, initial skills
training (IST) must be completed within 6 months of entering active duty unless restricted by lack of
security clearance or other extenuating circumstances. Upon successful completion of the 21A AETC
IST Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course, graduates will receive entry level 21A1 AFSC. Initial
assignments provide opportunities to establish and build depth of knowledge and technical expertise
within the aircraft maintenance career field. Group Commanders will expose new officers to the entire
mission of the unit.

2.2.1.1. Positions include, but are not limited to those listed in Table 5.

2.2.1.2. Entry Level officers should understand all requirements within the Career Field Education and
Training Plan (CFETP).

2.2.2. Intermediate Level. Company grade officers should begin to broaden their breadth of knowledge,
experience, and expertise by pursuing Developmental Assignment (DA) opportunities. Timing and needs
of the AF as well as individual goals will determine DA opportunities for each individual. Company
grade officers are expected to pursue Developmental Education (DE) opportunities. To develop a firm
foundation in the maintenance career field, at least two of the first three assignments should be in a 21A
position. Back-to-back career broadening assignments are strongly discouraged. Senior Captains are
required to attend the AETC Maintenance Officer Intermediate Course (MOIC) or Advanced
Maintenance and Munitions Operations School (AMMOS) Combat Support Course (CSC).

2.2.2.1. Positions include, but are not limited to those listed in Table 5.

2.2.3. Staff and Senior Level. During this time they should pursue those opportunities that make them
viable for squadron command and subsequent selection for group command or a key senior maintenance
                                                       15
officer position in the joint or greater logistics enterprise. Field grade officers are expected to pursue
Developmental Education (DE) opportunities commensurate with his/her rank.

2.2.3.1. Positions include, but are not limited to those listed in Table 5.

2.3. Grandfathering CFETP Requirements. In 2002, the decision was made that officers already
holding the 21A core AFSC would not be required to complete certain CFETP training requirements.
Table 2, below, indicates by Total Active Federal Commissioned Service Date (TAFCSD) which tasks
were grandfathered for those officers. All officers accessed/cross-flowed/cross-trained to the career field
after 2002 are required to meet all requirements set forth in the CFETP to earn officer certifications.

                                          Table 2. Grandfather Plan
                                                    CFETP Certification Requirements
       TAFCSD/TFCSD
                                         21A3                   Senior                            Master
  1 Jan 02 through current         All                All                                   All

  1 Jan 97 through 31 Dec 01*      Grandfathered      MOIC/CSC & 7 yrs in AFSC              All

  1 Jan 91 through 31 Dec 96       Grandfathered      Grandfathered                         All
  1 Jan 89 through 31 Dec 90       Grandfathered      Grandfathered                         15 yrs in AFSC
  31 Dec 88 and prior              Grandfathered      Grandfathered                         Grandfathered
* MOIC waiver requests need to be submitted through HAF/A4LF.

2.3.1. Prior-Enlisted Maintenance Officers. IAW AFI 36-2903, Dress and Appearance, prior-enlisted
officers who held senior/master maintenance badges may continue to wear awarded badges. However,
these officers are required to meet all CFETP training requirements for maintenance officer career
progression. Time served in any prior enlisted maintenance AFSC counts toward the officer’s
maintenance badge level (e.g., a First Lieutenant with four years in an enlisted maintenance AFSC and
three years as a 21xx may wear the senior maintenance badge).

3. U&TW Training Decisions: After reviewing OAR data, formal training data, course training
standards, and available formal/informal courses, the following decisions were made:

3.1. A focus of the 21A U&TW was to begin reshaping 21A/M courses as building blocks within the
Deliberate Continuum of Learning with emphasis on the need to train and educate maintenance officers at
the right time at the tactical, operational and strategic levels. Changes of note included:

3.1.1. Replacing Behavioral statements with Proficiency Codes in order to more clearly define the
training and knowledge level required for any given line item.

3.1.2. The Training Task List (TTL) for 21A3 was substantially revised.

3.1.3. Continuing Educational course requirements were deleted for the Master Certifications.

3.1.4. AMOC/MOIC are no longer optional for the Air Reserve Component.

3.1.5. The Career Pyramid was updated reflecting key jobs and developmental opportunities.


                                                      16
3.1.6. AMOC Synopsis: The AMOC review resulted in 7 CTS line items deleted from the list and 3
items added. In general, most items were validated at current proficiency levels. Initial estimates reveal
that course length will remain unchanged. Approximately 30% of CTS items were revised beyond just the
proficiency level.

3.1.7. MOIC Synopsis: MOIC was substantially revised. The MOIC CTS was more closely aligned with
AMMOS and the proficiency codes changed on certain CTS elements. Site visits were cancelled.

3.1.8. Accelerated AMOC Synopsis: The changes made in AMOC will also be reflected in the
accelerated course. As with AMOC, there is no change to course length anticipated.

3.1.9. Accelerated MOIC Synopsis: The Accelerated MOIC course was deleted in its entirety. The
Guard and Reserve voting members stated an accelerated requirement no longer exists.

4. Career Path/Training Flow. Experience and knowledge in this Air Force specialty will help an
officer plan and achieve their Air Force career goals as an Aircraft Maintenance Officer. There are
certain jobs or experiences in this discipline that will assist them in meeting individual goals. Table 3.
Training Flow (Accessions) and Table 4. Training Flow (Cross Train) describes the career path/training
opportunities and outlines when training is required for career progression within this specialty.

4.1. When initially assigned to aircraft maintenance, officers are expected to build depth through
technical experience within the aircraft maintenance arena. Unit level Maintenance Officers are initially
assigned to mission generation network, repair network, or MXG Staff.

4.2. After initial assignment there are various paths available to reach senior level maintenance positions.
It is important to gain experience in both mission generation and repair network aspects of the
maintenance career field. Several permanent change of station (PCS) moves are normally required for
you to experience these aspects to sufficient depth. Career broadening opportunities within
complementary skill areas will provide additional breadth.




                                                     17
                            Table 3. 21A Training Flow (Accessions)
                            21AX AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE OFFICER CAREER
      TIS
                            PATH/TRAINING FLOW Second Lieutenant - Accessions
                  21A1: Attend AMOC. Successful completion results in award of 21A1 entry level
                  AFSC.

 0 - 24           Follow-on unit training and CFETP. Eligible to start working on Senior
 Months           certification. Promotion to First Lieutenant. When a 21A1 successfully completes
                  24 months in a maintenance position and completes all CFETP mandatory training,
                  the squadron commander will award the 21A3 Qualified level AFSC. Begin
                  advanced academic degree.

                  Promotion to captain, SOS in-residence window begins. Eligible for cross flow to
                  21MX positions. Maintenance Officer Intermediate Course (MOIC) window
                  begins.
 4 Years
                  Continue to work on requirements for Senior certification. Eligible for career
                  broadening opportunities. Complete advanced academic degree.

                  Opportunities begin for AFIT Logistics Management Graduate Program. Window
 6 Years          for Advanced Maintenance and Munitions Operations School (AMMOS) Combat
                  Support Course (CSC)
 7 Years          SOS window ends.
 10 Years         Window for AMMOS CSC ends.
                  IPZ promotion to major, IDE windows begin, begin working on Master
 8-13 Years
                  certification.
                  IDE window ends. IPZ selection to lieutenant colonel, SDE window begins.
 14-17 Years
                  Opportunities begin for award of Master certification with completion of CFETP.
 18-22 Years      SDE window ends, IPZ selection opportunity to colonel.
* DE and Promotion windows may not apply to ARC

                            Table 4. 21A Training Flow (Cross Train)
                   21AX AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE OFFICER CAREER PATH/TRAINING
      TIS
                                            FLOW Captain - Cross Train
                  Promotion to captain, SOS in-residence window begins. 21A1: AMOC (14 weeks)
 4 Years
                  or Accelerated AMOC (3 weeks) and award entry level AFSC.
                  When a 21A1 successfully completes 24 months in a maintenance position and
                  completes all CFETP mandatory training, the squadron commander will award the
 6 Years
                  21A3 Qualified level AFSC. Opportunities begin for AFIT Logistics Management
                  Graduate Program. Window for AMMOS CSC begins.
                  SOS window ends. Opportunities begin for award of Senior Certification with
 7 Years
                  completion of MOIC or CSC and CFETP.
                  IPZ promotion to major, IDE windows begin. Opportunities continue for award of
 8-11 Years
                  Senior Certification with completion of MOIC or CSC and CFETP.



                                                 18
  10 Years         Window for AMMOS CSC ends.
                  IDE window ends. IPZ selection opportunity to lieutenant colonel, SDE window
  14-17 Years
                  begins. Opportunities begin for award of Master certification.
                  SDE window ends. IPZ selection opportunity to colonel. Opportunities continue for
  18-22 Years
                  award of Master certification.
* DE and Promotion windows may not apply to ARC




                                                19
Table 5. Aircraft Maintenance Officer Career Progression




                                 Joint
                               HQ USAF
                               MAJCOM
                               Group CC
                               ALC/SPM

                          HQ USAF, MAJCOM            SDE
                             ALC/SPM/PGM             AWC, ICAF, NWC, Fellowships
                               Dep Grp/CC
                       Squadron Commander
                     Developmental Assignment              IDE
                          Developmental Assignment
                 Special Duty            Ops Officer    ACSC, AAD (AFIT, NPS), EWI, NWC,
                Joint /OSD/DLA         DRU, FOA, Center Fellowships

                                  Leadership (Wing/Base
              MAJCOM/NAF
                                  Ops Officer, IDO, AMU          BDE
                 Staff            OIC, Flt/CC, ALC, SPO)         AAD, SOS, AFIT
          LCBP, Acq Log           Developmental Assignment

                            Special Duty
                                                                     Training
                                                                     MOIC, AMMOS
           (PME, Schoolhouse, Instructor, AFLMA, Exchange
                         Officer, Recruiting)



                Maintenance Officer Job Proficiencies
                                                                            Training
                                                                            AMOC
                                                                              Begin AAD
                           Flt/CC, Asst. OIC




                                 20
PART I

SECTION C - PROFICIENCY TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

1. Purpose. The proficiency training requirements in the 21AX career field are defined in terms of task
and knowledge requirements for each skill level in the Aircraft Maintenance Officer Specialty. They are
stated in broad, general terms and establish the standards of performance. The specific knowledge
training requirements are identified in Part II. Officers will develop depth on their first unit level
assignment by gaining experience both as a leader and a functional expert. A minimum of 4 years of
experience is recommended before cross flowing into a second functional area or requesting AETC
instructor duty. As senior captains and majors, maintenance officers should consider a headquarters staff
position and a tour as operations officer to gain valuable experience and further their development. The
16-year experience point, generally a Lt Col, is a rough expectation of when the maintenance officer will
be fully qualified and prepared to succeed at any senior maintenance position.

2. 21A1 and 21A3 Specialty Qualifications: Once the officer successfully completes IST, and meets
time requirements the officer can be considered for upgrade to a 21A3, IAW with AFOCD. The squadron
commander will verify the maintenance officer has completed training requirements for award of 21A3
AFSC and certify the officer for upgrade.

2.1. Knowledge. The following knowledge is mandatory for award of the AFSC: maintenance and
personnel management procedures, organizational and mission requirements; capabilities, limitations, and
basic operating principles of aircraft systems and components; theory of flight and airframe construction;
life cycle sustainment, quality assurance; supply, transportation, logistics plans, contracting, flying
operations, munitions, and other unit operations related to aircraft maintenance units.

2.2. Education. For entry into this AFSC, an undergraduate academic degree in engineering,
management, industrial management, business management, logistics management, or physical sciences
is desirable.

2.3. Training. For award of the 21A3, completion of AETC in-residence Aircraft Maintenance Officer
Course (AMOC) is mandatory.

2.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 21A3, a minimum of 24 months of experience managing aircraft
maintenance activities.

2.5. Training Sources. A list of all courses supporting education and training is in Part II, Section B.

2.6. Implementation. The tables in Part II, Section C outlines tasks that should be taken to reach
appropriate training levels.




                                                    21
PART I

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

1. No Resource Constraints: No resource constraints were identified during the revision of the CTSs
for all 21AX courses. Any resource constraints identified during course revision will be forwarded for
Course Resource Estimate and forwarded to AETC/A3TM Training Pipeline Manager for resolution IAW
AFI 36-2201 and AETCI 36-2203.




                                                  22
PART II

SECTION A - COURSE TRAINING STANDARD

1. Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level requirements. These are based on an analysis of the
duties contained herein and validated by the U&TW. The qualitative requirements for each task are based
on the proficiency values listed on the Proficiency Code Key in Attachment 1.

1.1. Customer Feedback. Unit supervisors will submit responses to Graduate Assessment Surveys
(GAS) and Field Evaluation Questionnaires (FEQ) on officers who complete the formal MOFC training
at Sheppard AFB. Respond to GASs and FEQs when received from the technical training group (82
TRG). (Reference AFI 36-2201)

1.2. Records Documentation. The CFETP will be issued at first duty station. Completion of training
will be documented in TBA.

1.3. Aircraft Maintenance Officer Training Requirements by Course. The Course Training
Standards (CTS) are listed in the attachments of this CFETP. Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Levels
are broken out by each training course CTS.




                                                  23
PART II

Section B –TRAINING COURSE INDEX

1. Purpose. This section of CFETP identifies training courses available in the aircraft maintenance
officer specialty and shows how courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training
programs. Career field functional managers and training management personnel should use this
information to plan, develop, and update their respective MAJCOM continuation training program. The
Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) contains more detailed course information at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil. Refer to this site for more detailed course information.

2. AFSC Awarding Courses.

2.1 Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course (AMOC) Training. This AFSC awarding course provides
the basic knowledge and skills needed to perform Aircraft Maintenance Officer duties for active duty Air
Force officers (new accessions, career broadening), Air Reserve Component (AFRC/ANG) officers, and
International officers entering the Aircraft Maintenance Officer Career Field. The scope of training
includes support equipment, airframe, aircraft accessories, avionics, propulsion, munitions orientation,
munitions flight organization, physical security/resource protection, explosive safety, munitions build-up,
armament, Air Force publication systems, maintenance forms, maintenance organization/functions,
personnel, financial resource management, programs, Air Force occupational safety and mishap
prevention, environmental protection, nuclear operations, plans and scheduling, status and measurement,
logistics, operations, unit level maintenance, contingency operations, Air Force inspection programs, AF
Doctrine, and a case study with senior officers/SNCO/NCO perspectives

2.1.1. Aircraft Applications Focus. AMOC students must understand mission generation and repair
network operations.

2.1.2. In the event of war, AMOC students will complete the course in its entirety.

2.1.3. Formal Training. AMOC is AETC formal training. The AMOC CTS in Attachment 2 lists the
formal initial skills training requirements.

2.2. Accelerated Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course (AAMOC). This AFSC awarding course is
designed for Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve officers with prior service maintenance experience (5-
skill level or above) who are scheduled to enter the Aircraft Maintenance Officer career field. Active
duty Munitions/Missile Maintenance Officers may attend this course. The scope of training includes
munitions, nuclear operations, armament, Air Force publication systems, maintenance forms,
maintenance organization/functions, personnel, resource management, programs, Air Force occupational
safety and mishap prevention, environmental protection, plans and scheduling, status and measurement,
logistics, operations, unit level maintenance, contingency operations, AF Doctrine, and AF inspection
programs.

2.2.1. Aircraft Maintenance Applications Focus. AAMOC students must understand mission
generation and repair network operations.

                                                    24
2.2.2. In the event of war, AAMOC students will complete the course in its entirety.

2.2.3. Formal Training. AAMOC is formal AETC training. The AAMOC CTS in Attachment 3 lists
the formal initial skills training requirements.

3. Non-AFSC Awarding Courses.

3.1. Maintenance Officer Intermediate Course (MOIC). This course provides training for mid-level
company grade maintenance officers in the knowledge and skills needed to function proficiently as a
Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO) and to command a maintenance squadron. The scope of training
includes Air Force Materiel Command’s (AFMC) interaction between lifecycle management/acquisition
managers, operations, training, personnel readiness, budget, analysis, explosive and weapons safety,
quality assurance, material management processes, deployments/employments, maintenance leadership
and process management, repair network operations, and a squadron command forum.

3.1.1. Maintenance Applications Focus. MOIC students must understand aircraft, mission generation
and repair network operations.

3.1.2. In the event of war, MOIC students will complete the course in its entirety.

3.1.3. Formal Training. The Maintenance Officer Intermediate Course is an AETC formal training
course. The MOIC CTS in Attachment 4 lists the formal training requirements.

4. Aircraft Maintenance Supplementary Courses.

4.1. Aircraft Mishap Investigation Course (AMIC): This course is designed for 21A officers, to
prepare them to be mishap investigation board members (SIB/AIB). Target audience is GS-9 or above
civilians and military equivalents.

4.2. Aerospace Propulsion Craftsman, Jet Engine Mishap Investigation Course (JEMIC): The
course provides training to 21A officers who may be assigned jet engine mishap investigation
responsibilities (AIB/SIB). Target audience is NCOs with propulsion background, SNCOs, fully
qualified 21A3s, and GS-9 or above civilians.

4.3. Mishap Investigation Non-Aviation (MINA) Course. This course provides training to the novice
investigator and emphasizes investigative techniques, technical items relative to ground, space, missile
and explosives mishaps, and the impact of human behavior and culture related to mishaps. Target
audience is full-time ground safety personnel with enlisted 5-level, officers, and GS-9 civilians and
above.

5. Field Training Detachment Courses. There are Training Detachment (TD) courses available at
many locations – contact your unit training manager for applicability and availability.

6. Exportable Courses. Go to Air Force Distance Learning System (ADLS) website for complete

                                                    25
listing of distance learning courses available for technical order, aircraft familiarization training, and
maintenance information systems training.

7. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) Courses: AFIT is the Air Force’s premier institution of
professional and graduate education in acquisition, logistics, engineering, and management. Go to
http://www.afit.edu/ls/courselist.cfm for more information.

8. Follow-on MAJCOM/Unit Courses.

8.1. AMC Maintenance Officers Course: Provides training for Aircraft Maintenance Officers in AMC
specific maintenance management operations concepts. Target audience is O-3 and below with at least
six months experience upon completion of AMOC. Contact unit training manager for more information.

8.2. Air Force Combat Ammunition Planning and Production Senior Officer Orientation Course:
This course is designed for senior leaders who will be responsible for managing munitions activities.
Target audience is O-4 and above who will be assuming Sq/Gp CC duties. Contact unit training manager
for more information.

9. Department of Defense Courses.

9.1. Defense Acquisition University (DAU): DAU coordinates the acquisition education and training
programs to meet the training requirements of approximately 132,000 DoD Acquisition, Technology and
Logistics (AT&L) workforce personnel. As the DoD corporate university for acquisition education, the
DAU sponsors curriculum and instructor training to provide a full range of basic, intermediate, advanced,
and assignment-specific courses to support the career goals and professional development of the AT&L
Workforce. Information and course descriptions can be found at http://www.dau.mil/.

9.2. Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA). DTRA courses can be found at the following link:
www.dtra.mil/oe/cs/programs/training/dnws/registration.cfm.




                                                      26
PART II

SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIAL

1. FOLLOW-ON UNIT TRAINING. Designed to teach new officers how concepts presented at
technical school instruction are applied at the unit level.

1.1. Concept. Ideally officers should complete AETC formal training prior to unit training. The intent
of follow-on unit training is to provide a local training plan to familiarize officers with unit specific
procedures and operations. Follow-on unit training consists of the tasks identified by the unit. Officers
will not be upgraded to a fully qualified level until satisfactorily completing both AETC formal training
and CFETP core tasks. One successful occurrence does not necessarily constitute understanding of the
training objective, but it should provide the individual with a basic understanding of subject areas.

1.2. Training plan. The instructional design for unit level training is determined locally. Appropriate
lesson plans, support materials, and instructor guidance are the responsibility of each unit. Unit training
may include work center and field visits, task observations, classroom instruction, self-study,
supervisor/commander interaction to meet training objectives. Squadrons/Groups should produce a local
Maintenance Officer Training Plan (MOTP) to standardize and formalize follow-on unit training
processes.

1.3. Familiarization Training and Workcenter Visits. Officers must be scheduled to observe
familiarization tasks from start to finish. Supervisors will ensure pre-task, task, and post-task actions are
included. Training may be conducted concurrent with team training operations or during routine
maintenance operations. Instructors/supervisors will ensure officers understand the fundamentals of each
task, why it is performed, associated hazards, and the overall system impact. Unit training should also
include work center visits. Visits consist of tours of all maintenance work centers and key support
agencies as determined by the commander/supervisor.

1.4. Training Documentation. Document the officer’s training in TBA; this includes upgrade training
and it will be placed as a journal entry.

1.4.1. Supervisors will review TBA with trainees at an initial interview within 60 days of the trainee’s
assignment to the unit. During the interview the supervisor and trainee will discuss core task
requirements (identified by an *) and explain that core tasks must be completed within 24 months after
assignment to a 21A position. Document the initial interview.

1.4.2. Supervisors will identify tasks, in addition to the core tasks, the trainee will be required to
complete, as some installations may not have all the required equipment, supervisors will identify core
tasks able to be completed in TBA. Every effort should be made by the trainee to meet the core task
requirement when able (TDY, loaner equipment, etc.).

1.4.3. For the Basic Certification Training Task List, supervisors will review training progress with
trainees quarterly. Supervisors will conduct the review on this basis until all items are complete.
Documentation of this review will be in TBA.

1.4.4. Grandfathered Record Documentation. Document Grandfathered tasks/training via journal
entries.




                                                      27
2. 21A Maintenance Officer Training Task List

 This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
 Name of Trainee
 Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)         Initials (Written)     SSAN (Last 4 only)

 Printed Name Of Supervisor (Last, First, Middle Initial) and Written Initials
 N/I                                                 N/I

 N/I                                                 N/I

 N/I                                                 N/I


2.1. 21A3 certification requirements

  When certification requirements are completed record in TBA

                                                                                 Trainee    Supervisor’s
 Requirements for award of 21A3:                                                                           Date
                                                                                 Initials     Initials

  INITIAL COMMANDER’S ORIENTATION
  *A1.1. Attend Commander’s orientation
  *A1.2. Complete maintenance complex familiarization tour
  A1.3. Discuss LEAN and CPI as it applies to unit
  A1.4. Complete MDS/program familiarization program (i.e.
  CAST/FAM/FTD course)
  MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
  A1.5. Learn use/methods of unit’s secure communications (i.e. SIPR)
  A1.6. Understand units Critical Information List (CILs)
  A1.7. Understand local Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) requirements
                                                                                 Trainee    Supervisor’s
                                                                                                           Date
                                                                                 Initials     Initials
  A1.8. FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE (FOD)
  PREVENTION/DROPPED OBJECT PREVENTION PROGRAM
  (DOPP) TR: AFI 21-101, MAJCOM Supplements
  *A1.8.1. Attend a FOD/DOP program meeting
  *A1.8.2. Explain FOD/DOP prevention program requirements
  A1.8.3. Assist in a FOD or DOP investigation
  A1.8.4. Participate/Lead FOD walk

  A1.9. AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
  (AFOSH) PROGRAM TR: Applicable Aircraft specific TOs, AFI 91-
  203, 91-301
  *A1.9.1. Perform (using applicable job guides) aircraft safe for
  maintenance procedures
  A1.9.2. Explain safety precautions pertaining to aircraft maintenance
  *A1.9.2.1. Explain engine danger areas
  *A1.9.2.2. Explain high intensity noise areas and precautions


                                                    28
*A1.9.2.3. Explain and demonstrate/identify turbine plane of rotation
danger area
*A1.9.2.4. Explain radiation hazard areas
A1.9.3. Describe additional hazards related to assigned Mission Design
Series (MDS)
A1.9.3.1. Identify location of cartridges, squibs and initiators on an
aircraft
A1.9.3.2. Explain safety requirements for cartridges, squibs and initiators

A1.10. MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS CENTER (MOC)
TR: AFI 21-101 ACCI, AMCI
A1.10.1. Receive tour and mission briefing of MOC
A1.10.2. Explain the purpose of crash net phones/radios
*A1.10.3. Read all unit emergency action checklists
A1.10.4. Train on ICC/EOC processes
A1.10.5. Review deviation sheets
A1.10.6. Perform board bump

A1.11. MAINTENANCE DIRECTIVES, REFERENCES, AND
INSTRUCTIONS TR: AFI 21-101, AFPD 21-3, TOs 00-5-15, 00-20-1
*A1.11.1. Read AFI 21-101 Lead Command Supplement
A1.11.2. Read/explain TOs 00-5-1 and 00-20-1
A1.11.3. Read/explain TO 00-5-15
A1.11.4. Read/explain TO 00-25-172
A1.11.5. Read/explain AFI 91-203
*A1.11.6. Read/explain local maintenance OIs, applicable wing
instructions and supplements
*A1.11.7. Explain contents and information found in UMD/UMPR

A1.12. TRAINING TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2101, AFM 36-2108, AFI
10-204, web site: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
A1.12.1. Attend the Air Force Training Course (AFTC)
*A1.12.2. Review OJT records and explain contents of a typical training
record
*A1.12.3. Discuss unit training program with UTM
*A1.12.4. Attend SOT meeting

A1.13. UNIT DEPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT TR: AFI 10-403
*A1.13.1. Explain installation deployment plan
A1.13.2. Process through a deployment line
*A1.13.3. Explain how to process personnel and equipment
*A1.13.4. Explain unit MISCAP/DOC Statement and UTCs
A1.13.5. Attend ART/SORT/DRRS meeting
*A1.13.6 Meet with the IDO to discuss installation deployment plan
execution

A1.14. PLANS AND SCHEDULING TR: AFI 21-101/AFTTP 3-21,
CAF 21-165
A1.14.1. Review and explain aircraft PDM or equivalent inputs/returns
requirements
A1.14.2. Attend monthly scheduling meeting
A1.14.2.1. Assist production of monthly schedule
A1.14.3. Attend weekly scheduling meeting
A1.14.3.1. Assist production of weekly schedule



                                                  29
A1.14.4. Attend flying squadron/AMU scheduling meeting
*A1.14.5. Explain the decisions points and coordination involved in
processing/revising daily flying plan (AF Form 2407)
A1.14.6. Understand the factors in determining availability of aircraft for
next day’s flying schedule
A1.14.7. Explain requirements for aircraft washes
A1.14.8. Explain ISO/Phase scheduling process
A1.14.9. Attend Shared Resources Meeting
A1.14.10. Explain First Look, annual plan, and long range scheduling

A1.15. OPERATIONS TR: AF 21-101
*A1.15.1. Attend a maintenance debrief session
A1.15.2. Assist in data input/retrieval of actual debrief
A1.15.3. Attend aircrew mission certification
A1.15.4. Attend operations mission brief and debrief
A1.15.5. Perform Operations complex familiarization tour
*A1.15.6. Understand aircrew training requirements/sortie forecast
A1.15.7. Assist ops scheduler with daily/weekly requirements

A1.16. DOCUMENTATION TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-20-1
A1.16.1 Participate in Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO)
meeting
A1.16.2. Assist in aircraft inventory pre/post Programmed Depot
Maintenance (PDM) input documentation actions
A1.16.3. Participate in aircraft document review
A1.16.4. Observe exceptional release process

A1.17. MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS
A1.17.1. Receive tour and mission briefing
*A1.17.2. Explain application of Management Information Systems
(MIS)
*A1.17.3. Review and explain fleet health and sortie production
indicators
*A1.17.4. Explain the role and importance of the data integrity program
A1.17.5. Review monthly metric summary (i.e. 9302/2401)
A1.17.6. Attend Health of the Fleet meeting

A1.18. QUALITY ASSURANCE FUNCTIONS
A1.18.1. Tour QA office and explain responsibilities for the deficiency
reporting program
*A1.18.2. Explain Weight and Balance Program, and required
documentation
*A1.18.3 Explain Functional Check Flight (FCF)/Operational Check
Flight (OCF) Program
A1.18.4 Accompany inspectors/evaluators as they perform the following:
*A1.18.4.1. Observe/explain Personal Evaluation (PE), ,
*A1.18.4.2 Observe/explain Quality Verification Indicator (QVI)
*A1.18.4.3. Observe/explain Special Inspection (SI) evaluation processes
A1.18.5.. Review Wing Product Improvement Program
TR: AFI 21-118
*A1.18.6. Explain one-time inspection (to include local) processes
A1.18.7. Impoundments
*A1.18.7.1 Explain impoundment procedures


                                                   30
A1.18.7.2. Shadow SNCO/Officer throughout an impoundment procedure
A1.18.8. Understand the role of the contract QAE
A.1.18.9. Review Air Force Repair Enhancement Program (AFREP)
processes
* A1.18.10. Explain and review local MSEP program
*A1.18.11. Explain special certification roster requirements and
procedures
A1.18.12. Explain local man procedures
A.1.18.13. Understand the purpose and function of PWSs/SOWs,
development and government oversight

A1.19. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (HAZMAT)
TR: AFI 91-203
A1.19.1. Tour HAZMAT Pharmacy and gain a general understanding of
their responsibilities
*A1.19.2. Explain responsibilities of Hazardous Material Collection Point
Managers and identify discrepancies at collection points
A1.19.3. Read Environmental, Safety, Occupational Health, Assessment
and Management Program (ESOHCAMP) Inspection Reports and
comprehend past discrepancies and corrective actions
*A1.19.4. Review hazardous materials spill response procedures and
identify kit locations per in local OIs QRCs
*A1.19.5 Tour a hazardous waste satellite accumulation point
A1.19.6 Explain labeling of HAZ waste containers/MSDS
MAINTENANCE TASKS
A1.20. GROUND HANDLING AND SERVICING OF AIRCRAFT,
AND EXPLOSIVE DEVICES TR: AFI 11-218, 91-203, TO 00-25-
172, APPLICABLE –2 TOs
*A1.20.1. Explain emergency ground egress procedures
*A1.20.2. Explain aircraft parking requirements
*A1.20.3. Explain hot brake procedures
*A1.20.4. Explain aircraft hangar input/removal procedures
A1.20.5. Explain inclement/cold weather procedures
A1.20.6. Observe aircraft de-icing procedures
A1.20.7. Assist with aircraft power-on and power-off procedures
*A1.20.8. Understand and assist in performing aircraft tow operations
*A1.20.9. Observe aircraft jack and level
*A1.20.10. Assist and explain an aircraft launch
*A1.20.11. Assist in and explain an aircraft recovery
A1.20.12. Assist in static grounding of aircraft
A1.20.13. Assist with installation/removal of ground safety locks/pins
A1.20.14. Assist in opening/operating cargo doors
A1.20.15. Observe and explain servicing landing gear struts Nose
Landing Gear (NLG)/Main Landing Gear (MLG)
A1.20.16. Assist with removal/installation of landing gear wheel and tire
(NLG/MLG)
A1.20.17. Observe main landing gear brake change
*A1.20.18. Explain serviceability of tires
A1.20.19. Observe installation/removal of seat safety pins
A1.20.20. Assist opening/closing engine access doors/cowlings
*A1.20.21. Observe refuel/defuel of aircraft
A1.20.22. Explain the use of aircraft guarded switches
A1.20.23 Demonstrate operation of aircraft radios
A1.20.24. Demonstrate operation of interphone system


                                                 31
A1.20.25. Assist in removal/replacement of ground covers
*A1.20.26. Observe configure/re-configure aircraft (i.e. pylons, external
fuel tanks, electronic pods, seats, comfort pallets, etc.)
A1.20.27. Identify location of cartridges, squibs, initiators on an aircraft
A1.20.28. Explain safety requirements for cartridges, squibs, initiators
A1.20.29. Assist in engine removal/installation
* A1.20.30. Explain installed and/or uninstalled engine run procedures
and certifications
A1.20.31. Review and explain the requirements for reporting loaded
munitions accidents, incidents and deficiencies

A1.21. MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTIONS
*A1.21.1. Explain scheduled maintenance inspection requirements IAW
TO 00-20-1, applicable to assigned aircraft
A1.21.2. Assist in an aircraft wash as a wash team member
*A1.21.3. Assist intake and exhaust inspections
*A1.21.4. Assist with preflight inspection
*A1.21.5. Assist with thru flight inspection
*A1.21.6. Assist in basic post flight inspection
A1.21.7. Assist with Home Station Check
A1.21.8. Explain hard landing inspection requirements
A1.21.9. Assist in acceptance/transfer inspection
A1.21.10. Explain Over “G” inspection
A1.21.11. Observe End of Runway inspection
*A1.21.12. Assist ground checkout of flight control system

A1.22. MAINTENANCE MATERIALS AND TOOLS TR: TO 1-1A-
8, 1-1A-14, -32 Series, AFI 21-101
*A1.22.1. Explain Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK) Program
A1.22.2. Explain how to adjust inventory, add/delete requirements for
tools/equipment/bench stock
A1.22.3. Identify Warranty Tool Program requirements
*A1.22.4. Perform lost tool checklist

A1.23. FLIGHT LINE MANAGEMENT
A1.23.1. Receive orientation from AMU OIC
*A1.23.2. Participate in an AMU production meeting
*A1.23.3. Understand flight manning/skill level impact on production
decisions
*A1.23.4. Participate in TDY/deployment planning
A1.23.5. Explain launch/recovery team concept
*A1.23.6. Explain production supervisor responsibilities
*A1.23.7. Explain expediter responsibilities
A1.23.8. Explain Dedicated Crew Chief/Crew Chief Training
Program/Flying Crew Chief Programs
*A1.23.9. Explain red X/in-process inspection qualification requirements
*A1.23.10. Explain how to interpret Minimum Essential Systems List
(MESL)/Mission Essential List (MEL) to determine aircraft status

A1.24. FLIGHT LINE PRODUCTION
* A1.24.1. Shadow Pro Super for a day
* A1.24.2. Observe shift turnover between Pro Supers
* A1.24.3. Shadow Expediter for a day

A1.25. WEAPONS PRODUCTION


                                                    32
A1.25.1. Receive orientation from Weapons Flight Chief
A1.25.2. Explain local munitions storage limitations
A1.25.3. Explain weapons safe for maintenance actions
A1.25.4. Explain hung ordnance/flare/hot gun procedures
A1.25.5. Observe weapons/munitions upload, testing, and download
A1.25.6. Understand how munitions are requested, delivered, and
reconciled

A1.26. ARMAMENT
A1.26.1. Receive tour and mission brief
A1.26.2. Understand bomb release system
inspection/troubleshooting/testing
A1.26.3. Understand missile system inspection/troubleshooting/testing
A1.26.4. Understand gun system inspection/troubleshooting/testing

A1.27. WEAPONS STANDARDIZATION
A1.27.1. Understand roles and functions of Wing Weapons Manager
A1.27.2. Understand roles and functions of Weapons Standardization
Section (WSS) and Load Standardization Crews (LSC)

A1.28. MUNITIONS
A1.28.1. Compete Muns Tour (Line Delivery, Munitions Control, MSA)

A1.29. MAINTENANCE SQUADRON(S)
A1.29.1. Attend Unit Mission Brief
A1.29.2. Attend squadron daily production meeting/maintenance
supervisors overview
*A1.29.3. Shadow Pro Super for a day
A1.29.4 Explain squadron flight line dispatch procedures
 A1.29.5 Explain Repair Network Integration (RNI) and the
responsibilities of a Repair Node Manager (NM), if established at your
installation

A1.30. FABRICATION FLIGHT
A1.30.1. Complete branch tour and mission brief

A1.31. STRUCTURAL REPAIR SHOP
*A1.31.1. Complete tour
A1.31.2. Observe composite materials repair
A1.31.3. Observe honeycomb repairs
A1.31.4. Observe sheet metal repair process
A1.31.5. Observe application/repair of radar absorbing material
(RAM)/low observable (LO) components

A1.32. CORROSION CONTROL SHOP
*A1.32.1. Complete tour
A1.32.2. Observe paint operation
A1.32.3. Explain Volatile Organic Compound (VOC)
A1.32.4. Identify high corrosion areas particular to airframe type
A1.32.5. Observe aircraft wash

A1.33. WELDING SHOP
*A1.33.1 Complete tour
A1.33.2. Explain Welding Certification Program
TR: AFI 21-105


                                                  33
A1.33.3. Explain required eye/personnel protection
TR: AFI 91-203
A1.33.4. Observe welding operations

A1.34. MACHINE SHOP
*A1.34.1 Complete tour
A1.34.2. Observe machinery operations
A1.34.3. Observe in-shop flow of repairables

A1.35. NON-DESTRUCTIVE INSPECTION SHOP
*A1.35.1 Complete tour
*A1.35.2. Explain/observe basic inspection methods used
A1.35.3. Observe an in-shop Nondestructive Inspection (NDI)
A1.35.4. Explain Oil Analysis Program (OAP)/observe oil lab operation
TR: AFI 91-203
A1.35.5. Review documentation of yearly physicals
A1.35.6. Review documentation of film badge control

A1.36. ACCESSORIES FLIGHT
A1.36.1. Receive tour and mission brief

A1.37. ELECTRICAL-ENVIRONMENTAL SHOP
A1.37.1. Receive tour and mission brief

A1.38. HYDRAULIC /PNEUDRAULIC SHOP
A1.38.1. Receive tour and mission brief
A1.38.2. Observe shop repairables flow/documentation

A1.39. FUEL SYSTEMS SHOP
A1.39.1. Observe fuel cell work in-progress
*A1.39.2. Explain fuel tank entry program (As applicable to MDS
assigned)
*A1.39.3. Explain confined space program (As applicable to MDS
assigned)
A1.39.4. Observe tank pressurization testing/certification
A1.39.5. Observe/tour external tank storage facility
*A1.39.6. Explain different fuel leaks classification
A1.39.7. Explain operation of fuel cell fire suppression system

A1.40. EGRESS SHOP
A1.40.1. Receive tour and mission brief
A1.40.2. Understand local egress system
A1.40.3. Understand egress certification process

A1.41. AVIONICS FLIGHT
A1.41.1. Receive tour and mission brief
A1.41.2. Understand Avionics repair cycle process

A1.42. PROPULSION (ENGINE) SHOP
A1.42.1. Observe engine induction and disassembly/assembly
*A1.42.2. Observe operational updates to automated engine management
systems
A1.42.3. Observe propeller mate/de-mate
A1.42.4. Observe AFTO Form 95 “Significant Historical Data” inputs
(manual/electronic)


                                                   34
A1.43. AEROSPACE GROUND EQUIPMENT(AGE) TR: AFI 91-
203
A1.43.1. Tour AGE Shop
*A1.43.2. Understand pre-use inspection/documentation for common
powered and non-powered AGE
A1.43.3. Identify purpose/nomenclature of maintenance stands and
understand pre-use inspection/documentation requirements TR: AFI 91-
203, TO 35A4 Series

A1.43.4. Explain safety considerations for gaseous oxygen (GOX), liquid
oxygen (LOX), and Nitrogen cart storage areas TR: TOs 15X-1-1, 37C2-
8
A1.43.5. Understand pre-use inspection/documentation for ground heaters
and blowers
A1.43.6. Understand pre-use inspection/documentation for generator sets
TR: TO 35C2 Series
A1.43.7. Understand pre-use inspection/documentation for lighting
equipment TR: TO 35F5 Series
A1.43.8. Observe an hydraulic test stand operation and know pre-use
inspection/documentation requirements TR: TO 33A2 Series

A1.439. Understand pre-use inspection/documentation for air
conditioning units TR: TO 35E9 Series
A1.43.10. Understand pre-use inspection/documentation for gas turbine
compressors TR: TO 35D12 Series (-60, -95)
A1.43.2.11. Understand pre-use inspection/documentation for AGE tow
vehicles/tow bars TR: TO 36A10 Series

A1.44. MAINTENANCE FLIGHT
*A1.44.1. Complete tour

A1.45. AIRCRAFT INSPECTION SECTION
*A1.45.1. Complete tour
A1.45.2. Participate in the applicable isochronal (ISO)/phase/periodic
inspections
A1.45.3. Attend pre/post-dock meeting

A1.46. REPAIR AND RECLAMATION SECTION
*A1.46.1. Complete tour
A1.46.2. Observe flight control rigging on primary assigned aircraft
A1.46.3. Observe CDDAR responsibilities if assigned
A1.46.3.1. Identify purpose of Crash Recovery Equipment

A1.46.3.2. Assist in crash trailer periodic/calendar inspection
A1.46.3.3. Observe annual CDDAR exercise
A1.46.4. Observe refurbishment section responsibilities if established

A1.47. WHEEL AND TIRE SECTION
*A1.47.1. Complete Tour
A1.47.2. Observe the build-up and repair of wheel and tire components

A1.48. TRANSIENT AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE SECTION
A1.48.1. Understand host wing responsibilities
A1.48.2 Understand unit equipment responsibilities (deicing, emergency
towing, GSE)


                                                  35
  A1.49. RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUPPLY
  TR: AFM 23-110 v2 Pt 13, AFI 21-101
  A1.49.1. Tour the supply activity
  *A1.49.2. Understand Mission Capable (MICAP) verification procedures
  *A1.49.3. Review equipment accountability procedures
  *A1.49.4. Understand local parts manufacturing policies and procedures
  *A1.49.5. Understand bench stock monitoring processes
  *A1.49.6. Understand tail number/FOM bin procedures
  *A1.49.7 Understand local CANN procedures
  A1.49.8. Observe daily and monthly supply products
  *A1.49.9. Observe Due-In-From-Maintenance procedures (DIFM) listing

  A1.50. LOGISTICS READINESS SQUADRON
  A1.50.1 Receive tour and mission brief
  A1.51 Logistics Readiness Function
  TR: AFI 10-403
  *A1.51.1. Explain installation deployment plan
  A1.51.2. Process through a deployment line
  *A1.51.3. Explain how to process personnel and equipment
  *A1.51.4 Meet with the IDO to discuss installation deployment plan
  execution
 A1.51.5. Supply Function
 *A1.51.5.1 Meet with MSL
 A1.51.6. POL/Fuels Management Overview
 *A1.51.6.1. Tour fuels control center to include fuels testing
 *A1.51.7. Explain MRSP fill and deployment procedures
 A1.51.8. Transportation Function
 A1.51.8.1. Tour vehicle maintenance and dispatch facility
 A1.51.9. Understand Vehicle Control Program
Note: * Identifies core task requirements

Senior certification requirements.
  When certification requirements are completed record in TBA

                                                                           Trainee    Supervisor
   1.52. Complete 4 of the following courses: (1 minimum for ARC)                                  Date
                                                                           Initials   Initials
  1.52.1. 785CAP, AFCOMAC Air Force Combat Ammunition Planning
  and Production Course
  1.52.2. AFIT LOG 131, Industrial Maint Management
  1.52.3. AFIT LOG 132 Production Maintenance Management (PMS
   Internship)
  1.52.4. AFIT LOG 199, Introduction to Logistics
  1.52.5. AFIT LOG 262, Applied Maint Management Concepts
  1.52.6. AFIT LOG 299, Combat Logistics
  1.52.7. AFIT REQ 111 Air Force Capabilities Based Operational
   Requirements Course
  1.52.8. AFIT SYS 172 Modification Management Process
  1.52.9. AMIC Aircraft Mishap Investigation Course
  1.52.10. CWPC Contingency Wartime Planners Course
  1.52.11. DAU ACQ 101, Fundamentals of Systems Acquisition
   Management
  1.52.12. DAU ACQ 201 Intermediate Systems Acquisition, Part A


                                                    36
  1.52.13. DAU ACQ 201 Intermediate Systems Acquisition, Part B
  1.52.14. DAU CLE004 Intro to LEAN Enterprise Concepts
  1.52.15. DAU CLE007 LEAN 6 Sigma (or other Lean course of 8 hrs)
  1.52.16. DAU LOG 101, Acquisition Logistics Fundamentals
  1.52.17. DAU LOG 102 Systems Sustainment Management Fundamentals
  1.52.18. DAU PMT 251 Program Management Tools, part 1
  1.52..19. DAU PQM 101 Production, Quality and Manufacturing
  Fundamentals
  1.52.20. DAU PQM 201A Intermediate Production, Quality and
   Manufacturing, Part A
  1.52.21. DAU PQM 201B Intermediate Production, Quality and
   Manufacturing, Part B
  1.52.22. DAU TST 102 Fundamental of Test and Evaluation
  1.52.23. DNWS NWOC Nuclear Weapons Orientation Course
  1.52.24. DNWS TNOC Theater Nuclear Operations Course
  1.52.25. SFC Space Fundamentals Course
   1.52.26. SMIFTU Space and Missiles Intelligence Formal Training
   Unit
   1.52.27. JEMIC Jet Engine Mishap Investigation Course
   1.52.28. N3-11 NATO Nuclear Surety Management Course
   1.53. Complete MOIC or AMMOS

  1.54. Has held any 2 of the following duty positions
  1.54.1. AMOC/AAMOC Instructor
  1.54.2. Operations Officer
  1.54.3. Flight/Det Commander
  1.54.4. AMU OIC
  1.54.5. QA OIC
  1.54.6. ALC/CRF Maintenance
  1.54.7. NAF, MAJCOM, or Air Staff
  1.54.8. Executive Officer (Maintenance Organizations Only)
  1.55. Successfully complete 7 years in the specialty

Master certification requirements

 When certification requirements are completed record in TBA

 1.56. Has held any 2 of the following duty positions post Senior    Trainee    Supervisor   Date
 Certification (One for ARC)                                         Initials   Initials
 1.56.1. MOIC/AMMOS Instructor
 1.56.2. Command
 1.56.3. NAF, MAJCOM, DRU, FOA or Air Staff
 1.56.4. ALC Level Maintenance
 1.56.5. Acquisition Duty
 1.56.6. Joint Logistics Duty
 1.56.7. Deputy Maintenance Group Commander
 1.56.8. Other Logistics AFSC (21M, 21R)
 1.56.9. Operations Officer
 1.57. Successful completion of 15 years in the specialty




                                                 37
PART II

Section D - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS.

1. Suggested 797 Workcenter Tasks: The attached AF Form 797 suggested workcenter tasks are listed
below:

  SUGGESTED AF FORM 797 WORKCENTER TASKS
  INITIAL COMMANDER’S ORIENTATION
  A4.1. Discuss LEAN and CPI as it applies to unit
  A4.2. Complete MDS/program familiarization (i.e. CAST/FAM/FTD course)

  MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
  A4.3. AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
  TR: Aircraft specific TOs, AFI 91-203, 91-301
  A4.3.1. Identify location of cartridges, squibs, initiators on an aircraft
  A4.3.2. Explain engine danger areas
  A4.3.3. Explain and demonstrate/identify turbine plane of rotation danger area

  A4.4. MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS CENTER (MOC)
  TR: AFI 21-101 ACCI, AMCI
  A4.4.1. Explain the purpose of crash net phones/radios
  A4.4.2. Train on ICC/EOC processes
  A4.4.3. Review deviation sheets

  A4.5. MAINTENANCE DIRECTIVES, REFERENCES, AND INSTRUCTIONS TR: AFI 21-101, AFPD
  21-3, TOs 00-5-15, 00-20-1
  A4.5.1. Read/explain TOs 00-5-1 and 00-20-1
  A4.5.2. Read/explain TO 00-5-15
  A4.5.3. Read/explain TO 00-25-172
  A4.5.4. Read/explain AFI 91-203

  A4.6. TRAINING TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2101, AFM 36-2108, AFI 10-204, web site:
  https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
  A4.6.1. Attend the Air Force Training Course (AFTC)
  A4.6.2. Attend SOT meeting

  A4.7. UNIT DEPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT TR: AFI 10-403
  A4.7.1. Process through a deployment line
  A4.7.2. Explain how to process personnel and equipment
  A4.7.3. Attend ART/SORT/DRRS meeting

  A4.8. PLANS AND SCHEDULING TR: AFI 21-101 /AFTTP 3-21, (CAF 21-165)
  A4.8.1. Review and explain aircraft PDM or equivalent inputs/returns requirements
  A4.8.2. Attend monthly scheduling meeting
  A4.8.3. Assist production of monthly schedule
  A4.8.4. Attend weekly scheduling meeting
  A4.8.5. Assist production of weekly schedule
  A4.8.6. Attend flying squadron/AMU scheduling meeting
  A4.8.7. Understand the factors in determining availability of aircraft for next day’s flying schedule

  SUGGESTED AF FORM 797 WORKCENTER TASKS



                                                    38
A4.8.8. Explain requirements for aircraft washes
A4.8.9. Explain ISO/Phase scheduling process
A4.8.10. Attend Shared Resources Meeting

A4.9. OPERATIONS TR: AF 21-101
A4.9.1. Assist in data input/retrieval of actual debrief
A4.9.2. Attend aircrew mission certification
A4.9.3. Attend operations mission brief and debrief
A4.9.4. Assist ops scheduler with daily/weekly requirements

A4.10. DOCUMENTATION TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-20-1
A4.10.1. Assist in aircraft inventory pre/post Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM) input documentation
actions
A4.10.2. Explain serial number tracking requirements

A4.11. MAINTENANCE DATA SYSTEMS ANALYSIS
A4.11.1. Review monthly metric summary (i.e. 9302/2401)
A4.11.2. Attend Health of the Fleet meeting

A4.12. QUALITY ASSURANCE FUNCTIONS
A4.12.1. Explain Weight and Balance Program, and required documentation
A4.12.2. Review Wing Product Improvement Program TR: AFI 21-118
A4.12.3. Shadow SNCO/Officer throughout an impoundment procedure
A4.12.4. Understand the role of the contract QAE
A1.12.5. Review Air Force Repair Enhancement Program (AFREP) processes
A4.12.6. Explain local man procedures
A1.12.7. Understand the purpose and function of PWSs/SOWs, development and government oversight

A4.13. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (HAZMAT)
TR: AFI 91-203
A4.13.1. Tour HAZMAT Pharmacy and gain a general understanding of their responsibilities
A4.13.2. Read Environmental, Safety, Occupational Health, Assessment and Management Program
(ESOHCAMP) Inspection Reports and comprehend past discrepancies and corrective actions
A4.13.3. Explain labeling of HAZ waste containers/MSDS

A4.14. GROUND HANDLING AND SERVICING OF AIRCRAFT, AND EXPLOSIVE DEVICES
TR: AFI 11- 218, TO 00-25-172, APPLICABLE –2 TOs, AFI 91-203
A4.14.1. Observe aircraft de-icing procedures
A4.14.2. Assist with aircraft power-on and power-off procedures
A4.14.3. Explain aircraft parking requirements
A4.14.4. Explain hot brake procedures
A4.14.5. Explain aircraft hangar input/removal
A4.14.6. Explain inclement/cold/hot weather procedures
A4.14.7. Understand and assist in performing aircraft tow operations
A4.14.8. Observe and observe aircraft jack and level
A4.14.9. Observe an aircraft launch
A4.14.10. Observe an aircraft recovery
A4.14.11. Observe static grounding of aircraft
A4.14.12. Observe/explain servicing landing gear struts Nose Landing Gear (NLG)/Main Landing Gear (MLG)
SUGGESTED AF FORM 797 WORKCENTER TASKS
A4.14.13. Observe with removal/installation of landing gear wheel and tire (NLG/MLG)
A4.14.14. Observe main landing gear brake change
A4.14.15. Explain serviceability of tires
A4.14.16. Observe refuel/defuel of aircraft



                                                   39
A4.14.17. Explain the use of aircraft guarded switches
A4.14.18. Observe configure/re-configure aircraft (i.e. pylons, external fuel tanks, electronic pods, seats,
comfort pallets, etc.)
A4.14.19. Identify location of cartridges, squibs, initiators on an aircraft
A4.14.20. Explain safety requirements for cartridges, squibs, initiators
A4.14.21. Explain installed and/or uninstalled engine run Procedures and certifications
A4.14.22. Review and explain the requirements for reporting load munitions accidents, incidents and
deficiencies
A4.14.23. Observe in opening/operating cargo doors
A4.14.24. Observe installation/removal of seat safety pins
A4.14.25. Observe opening/closing engine access doors/cowlings
A4.14.26. Demonstrate operation of aircraft radios
A4.14.27. Demonstrate operation of interphone system
A4.14.28. Assist in removal/replacement of ground covers
A4.14.29. Assist in engine removal/installation

A4.15. MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTIONS
A4.15.1. Observe in an aircraft wash as a wash team member
A4.15.2. Observe intake and exhaust inspections
A4.15.3. Observe preflight inspection
A4.15.4. Observe thru flight inspection
A4.15.5. Observe basic post flight inspection
A4.15.6. Observe ground checkout of flight control system
A4.15.7. Assist with Home Station Check
A4.15.8. Explain hard landing inspection requirements
A4.15.9. Assist in acceptance/transfer inspection
A4.15.10. Explain Over “G” inspection
A4.15.11. Observe End of Runway inspection

A4.16. MAINTENANCE GROUP SQUADRONS
A4.16.1. Attend squadron daily production meeting/maintenance supervisors overview
A4.16.2. Shadow Squadron Pro Super
A4.16.3. Explain squadron flight line dispatch procedures
A4.16.4. Learn use/methods of unit’s secure communications (i.e. SIPR/STE)
A4.16.5. Understand units Critical Information List (CILs)

A4.17. SUPPORT SECTION TR: TO 1-1A-8, 1-1A-14, -32 Series, AFI 21-101
A4.17.1. Explain how to adjust inventory, add/delete requirements for tools/equipment/bench stock
A4.17.2. Identify Warranty Tool Program requirements
A4.17.3. Observe shift change issue/turn-in procedures
A4.17.4. Observe periodic inspection to include documentation, serviceability, and world-wide identifier etching
A4.17.5. Explain list of hazardous materials items/authorized quantities in lockers
A4.17.6. Explain rag control program

A4.18. FLIGHT LINE MANAGEMENT
A4.18.1. Participate in an AMU production meeting
A4.18.2. Participate in TDY/deployment planning
A4.18.3. Explain production supervisor responsibilities
A4.18.4. Explain expediter responsibilities
SUGGESTED AF FORM 797 WORKCENTER TASKS
A4.18.5. Explain Dedicated Crew Chief/Crew Chief Training Program/Flying Crew Chief Programs
A4.18.6. Explain red X/in-process inspection qualification requirements
A4.18.7. Explain launch/recovery team concept
A4.18.8. Observe shift turnover between Pro Supers



                                                   40
A4.18.9. Shadow Expediter and explain duties
A4.18.10. Receive orientation from Weapons Flight Chief
A4.18.11. Explain local munitions storage limitations
A4.18.12. Explain weapons safe for maintenance actions
A4.18.13. Explain hung ordnance/flare/hot gun procedures
A4.18.14. Observe weapons/munitions upload, testing, and download
A4.18.15. Understand how munitions are requested, delivered, and reconciled

A4.19. FLIGHT LINE PRODUCTION

A4.20. ARMAMENT
A4.20.1. Receive tour and mission brief
A4.20.2. Understand bomb release system inspection/troubleshooting/testing
A4.20.3. Understand missile system inspection/troubleshooting/testing

A4.21. WEAPONS STANDARDIZATION
A4.21.1. Understand roles and functions of Wing Weapons Manager
A4.21.2. Understand roles and functions of Weapons Standardization Section (WSS) and Load Standardization
Crews (LSC)

A4.22. MUNITIONS
A4.22.1. Understand roles and functions of Line Delivery
A4.22.2. Understand roles and functions of Munitions Control
A4.22.3. Understand roles and functions of Munitions
A4.22.4. Understand nuclear WRM concepts
A4.22.5. Understand local Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) requirements

A4.23. FABRICATION FLIGHT
A4.23.1. Observe composite materials repair
A4.23.2. Observe honeycomb repairs
A4.23.3. Observe sheet metal repair process
A4.23.4. Review MSDSs/HAZMAT Procedures
A4.23.5. Observe application/repair of radar absorbing material (RAM)/low observable (LO) components
A4.23.6. Observe paint operation
A4.23.7. Explain Volatile Organic Compound (VOC)
A4.23.8. Identify high corrosion areas particular to airframe type
A4.23.9. Explain Welding Certification Program TR: AFI 21-105
A4.23.10. Explain required eye/personnel protection TR: AFI 91-203
A4.23.11. Observe welding operations
A4.23.12. Observe machinery operations
A4.23.13. Observe documentation of work accomplished
A4.23.14. Observe in-shop flow of repairable
A4.23.15. Observe an in-shop Nondestructive Inspection (NDI)
A4.23.16. Explain Oil Analysis Program (OAP)/observe oil lab operation TR: AFI 91-203
A4.23.17. Review documentation of yearly physicals
A4.23.18. Review documentation of film badge control

A4.24. ACCESSORIES FLIGHT
A4.24.1. Understand Electrical-Environmental Shop battery charging capabilities
SUGGESTED AF FORM 797 WORKCENTER TASKS
A4.24.2. Observe Hydraulic/Pneudraulic Shop bench check a hydraulic line
A4.24.3. Observe Hydraulic shop repairable flow/documentation
A4.24.4. Observe fuel cell work in-progress
A4.24.5. Observe tank pressurization testing/certification



                                                41
A4.24.6. Observe/tour external tank storage facility
A4.24.7. Explain different fuel leaks classification
A4.24.8. Explain operation of fuel cell fire suppression system
A4.24.9. Understand local egress system
A4.24.10. Understand egress certification process

A4.25. AVIONICS FLIGHT
A4.25.1. Understand Avionics repair cycle process

A4.26. PROPULSION (ENGINE) SHOP
A4.26.2. Observe engine induction and disassembly/assembly
A4.26.3. Observe operational up-dates to automated engine management systems
A4.26.4. Assist with quarterly engine account reconciliation
A4.26.5. Observe propeller mate/de-mate
A4.26.6. Observe AFTO Form 95 “Significant Historical Data” inputs, (manual/electronic)

A4.27. AEROSPACE GROUND EQUIPMENT (AGE) TR: AFI 91-203
A4.27.1. Identify purpose and nomenclature of maintenance stands TR: AFI 91-203, TO 35A4 Series
A4.27.2. Explain safety considerations for gaseous oxygen (GOX), liquid oxygen (LOX), and Nitrogen cart
storage areas
A4.27.3. Ground heaters and blowers
A4.27.4. Generator Sets TR: TO 35C2 Series
A4.27.5. Identify Lighting Equipment TR: TO 35F5 Series A4.37.5.1.
A4.27.6. Observe Hydraulic Test Stands operation
A4.27.7. Identify purpose and nomenclature of Air Conditioning Units TR: TO 35E9 Series
A4.27.8. Identify Gas Turbine Compressors TR: TO 35D12 Series (-60, -95)
A4.27.9. Identify AGE Tow Vehicles/Tow bars TR: TO 36A40 Series

A4.28. MAINTENANCE FLIGHT
A4.28.1. Participate in the applicable isochronal(ISO)/phase/periodic inspections
A4.28.2. Attend pre/post-dock meeting
A4.28.3. Observe flight control rigging on primary assigned aircraft
A4.28.4. Understand Crash Recovery Equipment requirements
A4.28.5. Assist in crash trailer periodic/calendar inspection
A4.28.6. Observe refurbishment section responsibilities if established
A4.28.7. Observe the build-up and repair of wheel and tire components

A4.29. TMDE FLIGHT

A4.30. TRANSIENT AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE SECTION
A4.30.1 Understand unit equipment responsibilities (deicing, emergency towing, GSE)

A4.31. MAINTENANCE SUPPLY SUPPORT TR: AFM 23-110 v2 Pt 13, AFI 21-101
A4.31.1. Explain maintenance supply concept
A4.31.2. Understand management of Cannibalization (CANN)
A4.31.3. Prepare supply difficulty letters
A4.31.4. Observe daily and monthly supply products
A4.31.5. Explain the base repair cycle process
SUGGESTED AF FORM 797 WORKCENTER TASKS
A4.32. LOGISTICS READINESS SQUADRON
A4.32.1. Meet with the IDO to discuss installation deployment plan execution
A4.32.2. Understand roles of the MSL
A4.32.3. Tour fuels control center to include fuels testing
A4.32.4. Personally process through a deployment line



                                                  42
 A4.32.5. Attend ART/SORT meeting
 A4.32.6. Transportation Function
 A4.32.7. Tour vehicle maintenance and dispatch facility
 A4.32.8. Understand Vehicle Control Program


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                                      JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                              Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              DCS/Installations, Logistics and Mission Support


4 Attachments:
    1. Proficiency Code Key
    2. STS – Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course (AMOC)
    3. STS – Accelerated Aircraft Maintenance Officer Course (AAMOC)
    4. STS – Maintenance Officer Intermediate Course (MOIC)




                                                 43
                                          Attachment 1

         Resident Course Training Standards (CTS) QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                 PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
                     Scale    Definition: The individual
                     Value
                              Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to
                       1      do most of the task. (Extremely Limited)
                              Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.
Task Performance       2
                              (Partially Proficient)
     Levels                   Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed
                       3
                              work. (Competent)
                              Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                       4
                              others how to do the task. (Highly Proficient)
                              Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.
                       a
                              (Nomenclature)
                              Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task.
                       b
*Task Knowledge               (Procedures)
     Levels                   Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each
                       c
                              step is needed. (Operating Principles)
                              Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.
                       d
                              (Advanced Theory)
                       A      Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
                              Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles
   **Subject           B
                              about the subject. (Principles)
   Knowledge                  Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the
     Levels            C
                              subject. (Analysis)
                              Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                       D
                              subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to
define a level of knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not
directly related to any specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is
provided in the course or CDC.
X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training required but not given due to
limitations in resources.
 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war
time.




                                                44
                                       Attachment 2

                      COURSE TRAINING STANDARD (CTS)
                AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE OFFICER COURSE (AMOC)

                           Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level
1. SUPPORT EQUIPMENT TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-25-172, AFI 91-203, TO 32-1-               -
101, AFTTP 3-3
1.1. Types and uses of common non-powered support equipment * (Observe condition      B
& safe operation of non-powered Aerospace Ground Equipment AGE)
1.2. Types and uses of common powered support equipment * (Observe conditions &       B
safe operation of common powered AGE)
1.3. Types and uses of common ground-handling equipment                               B
1.4. Types and uses of common tools * (Observe CTK inspection)                        A
1.5. Types and uses of test equipment                                                 B
1.6. Tool and support equipment management requirements found in AFI21-101, Tool      B
and Equipment Management)
2. AIRFRAME TR: AFI 91-203, AFI 21123, AFI 21-124, AFI 63-1001, AFI 21-101,           -
TO 33B1-1, TO 27GS-00-1, TO 27FI-00-1, AFTTP 3-3
2.1. Basic principles of aerodynamics * (Observe flight control operation)            A
2.2. Aircraft structural components and their functions                               A
2.3. Aircraft structural materials                                                    A
2.4. Aircraft structural inspection                                                   B
2.5. Methods and procedures for flight control maintenance                            B
2.6. Low Observable                                                                   -
2.6.1. Theory                                                                         A
2.6.2. Maintenance management                                                         A
3. AIRCRAFT ACCESSORIES TR: AFI 21-101, TO 29GS-00-1, TO 13GA-1, TO                   -
1-1-3, TO 00-25-172, TO 00-25-223, AFTTP 3-3
3.1. Operating principles of hydraulic systems * (Observe selected hydraulic system   B
maintenance actions, focusing on safety)
3.1.1. Hydraulic system components                                                    A
3.2. Types and characteristics of various aircraft fuels                              A
3.3. Components and operating principles of fuel systems * (Observe selected fuel     B
system maintenance actions)
3.4. Components and operating principles of aircraft air conditioning systems         B
3.5. Operating principles of aircraft oxygen systems *(Observe LOX servicing)         B
3.6. Components and operating principles of aircraft pressurization systems           B
3.7. Components and operating principles of aircraft ice prevention systems           B




                                            45
3.8. Components and operating principles of electrical systems * (Observe selected       B
electrical system maintenance actions)
3.9. Components and operating principles of aircraft fire indication and extinguishing   B
systems
3.10. Components and operating principles of aircraft egress systems                     B
4. AVIONICS TR: TO -1, TO 31-GS, TO 51-GS, TO 94FI, TO 94GS, TO 27FI, TO                 -
27GS, AFTTP 3-3
4.1. Components and operating principles of aircraft communication, navigation, and      B
network systems
4.2. Components and operating principles of aircraft instruments                         B
4.3. Components and operating principles of airborne radar systems                       B
4.4. Components and operating principles of aircraft automatic flight control systems    B
4.5. Components and operating principles of weapon control/bomb navigation systems       B
4.6. Components and operating principles of sensor systems                               B
4.7. Components and operating principles of electronic warfare systems                   B
5. PROPULSION SYSTEMS TR: TO 2-1-18, TO 2-1-111, TO 2-9-1, AFTTP 3-3                     -
5.1. Various components of gas turbine engine operation * (Observe selected engine       A
system maintenance actions)
5.2. Operating principles of gas turbine engine systems and sections                     B
6. MUNITIONS ORIENTATION TR: WEAPONS FILE, AFTTP 3-3                                     -
6.1. Conventional munitions and components                                               A
6.2. Guided munitions and components                                                     A
6.3. Munitions security requirements                                                     B
7. MUNITIONS FLIGHT ORGANIZATION TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-200, AFTTP                       -
3-3
7.1. Roles and responsibilities within a Munitions Flight                                B
8. PHYSICAL SECURITY/RESOURCE PROTECTION TR: AFI 31-101, AFI 91-                         -
202, AFI 91-204, AFTTP 3-3
8.1. Requirement for resource protection                                                 A
9. EXPLOSIVE SAFETY TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-201, AFMAN 91-201, TO 11A-                    -
1-33, TO 11A-1-46, AFPAM 90-902, AFTTP 3-3
9.1. Aircraft and munitions explosive safety requirements                                B
9.2. Electrical hazards protection requirements for explosives                           B
9.3. Firefighting symbols and procedures                                                 B
9.4. Requirements for transportation of munitions                                        A
10. MUNITIONS BUILD-UP TR: AFI 21-201, AFTTP 3-3                                         -
10.1. Daily fragmentary order and how its change affects aircraft generation             A
requirements
10.2. Munitions build-up operations                                                      A
11. ARMAMENT TR: AFI 21-101, WEAPONS FILE, AFTTP 3-3                                     -
11.1. Operating principles of aircraft armament systems                                  B


                                             46
11.1.1. Aircraft gun system components                                                   A
11.1.2. Aircraft weapons release system components *                                     A
 (Observe selected weapons system maintenance actions)
11.2. Weapons standardization program                                                    B
12. AIR FORCE PUBLICATIONS SYSTEMS TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 33-360,                           -
AFTTP 3-3
12.1. Various levels and formats of Air Force publications and supplements               B
12.2. Use and application of technical orders                                            B
12.3. Different series of AF publications                                                A
12.4. Electronic Technical Orders                                                        A
13. MAINTENANCE FORMS TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-20-1, AFTTP 3-3                               -
13.1. Procedures and authorities for the accomplishment of exceptional release,          2b
maintenance downgrades, one-time flight authorization, and impoundments
14. MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION / FUNCTIONS TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-                         -
102, AFI 38-201, Titles 10&32 AFI 90-1001, U.S. Code, AFTTP 3-3
14.1. Working interface between logistics and operations production managers             B
14.2. Base-level maintenance organization                                                B
14.2.1. Contracted logistic support functions                                            A
14.3. Functional responsibilities of maintenance staff agencies                          B
14.4. Functional responsibilities of maintenance shops and sections * (Observe landing   B
gear & cargo door operation)
14.5. Functional responsibilities of maintenance managers                                B
14.6. Maintenance responsibilities of and interaction with the Air Logistics Complex     A
14.7. Components of the total force (including Air Reserve Technician (ART), Air         B
National Guard (ANG) technician, Air Reserve Component (ARC) organizational
structure, unit equipment and Associate Units)
15. PERSONNEL TR: AFDD-1, AFI 21-111, AFI 36-1, AFI 36-2108, AFI 36-2201,                -
AFI 36-2611, AFI 36-2232, AFI 38-201, AFI 38-204, AFTTP 3-3
15.1. Maintenance officer career path and training requirements                          A
15.2. Maintenance officer role in enlisted professional development (including           B
recognition, counseling, Professional Military Education (PME), career progression,
etc.)
15.3. Enlisted training program                                                          B
15.4. Facts about the civilian personnel system                                          A
15.5. Facts related to Unit Manpower Requirements                                        A
16. FINANCIAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TR: AFI 64-117, AFI 65-601,                            -
AFTTP 3-3
16.1. Base level elements of the financial resource management system/resource           A
management programs
17. PROGRAMS TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 32-1094, TO 00-5-1, TO 1-1-300, TO                    -
35-1-3, TO 1-1-691, TO 00-5-15, TO 00-25-254-1, TO 00-25-254-2, AFTTP 3-3, AFI
91-203, AFI21-124, TO 1-1-689-1



                                             47
17.1. Quality assurance programs                                                          B
17.2. Aircraft modification program                                                       A
17.3. Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO) process                                      A
17.4. Automated engine management system                                                  A
17.5. Reliability and maintainability programs                                            A
17.6. Preventive maintenance programs * (Observe selected aircraft inspections)           B
17.7. Corrosion control program                                                           B
17.8. User responsibilities for maintenance of Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic          A
equipment (TMDE)
17.9. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) and Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program             B
17.10. Crash Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program                        A
18. AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND MISHAP PREVENTION TR:                               -
AFI 91-202, AFI 91-203, AFPD 90-9, AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-3
18.1. Principles of Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) and mishap           B
prevention
18.2. Safety programs and associated documentation                                        B
18.3. Unsafe situations which may be encountered in the maintenance environment *         A
(Identify danger areas in and around aircraft)
18.4. Principles and implementation of Risk Management (RM)                               B
19. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION TR: AFI 90-801, AFI 32-7042, AFI 90-                         -
803, AFI 90-821, AFTTP 3-3
19.1. Cradle-to-grave management concepts of hazardous materials                          B
19.1.1. Application of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) laws to include              A
examples of the impact of state regulations to aircraft maintenance
19.1.2. Examples of hazardous waste minimization techniques                               A
19.1.2.1. Proper techniques for issue, use, return, disposal and recycling of hazardous   A
materials
19.1.3. Hazardous Communication (HAZCOM)                                                  A
20. NUCLEAR OPERATIONS TR: AFI 21-204, AFI 21-205, AFI 90-201, AFI 91-                    -
101, AFI 91-103, AFI 91-104, AFI 91-111 THRU 91-117, AFJI 11-204, AFMAN 10-
3902, CJCSI3263.05, TP 45-51, WEAPONS FILE, AFTTP 3-3
20.1. Fundamentals of the Nuclear Surety Program (TP 25-1, WSSRs, Certified               A
Equipment, PRP, Two-person Concept, NSI)
20.2. Nuclear generation operations and concepts (custody transfer, weapons movement,     A
exclusion area, SVA, critical components, tamper control, PNAF)
20.3. USAF nuclear weapons (B61, B83, ALCM, pylons/MMHE, use control)                     A
21. PLANS AND SCHEDULING TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244,                          -
AFTTP 3-3
21.1. First look requirements, annual & quarterly plans                                   A
21.2. Develop a monthly, weekly, and daily aircraft utilization and maintenance           2b
schedule




                                             48
22. STATUS AND MEASUREMENT TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244, AFI 21-101,                       -
AFI 21-103, AFTTP 3-3
22.1. Various maintenance information systems                                            A
22.2. Uses of various maintenance indicators                                             B
22.3. Use of AEF Reporting Tool (ART) and Status of Resources and Training System        A
(SORTS) reports and Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS)
22.4. Data Integrity Team (DIT) process                                                  A
22.5. Deficiency Analysis (DA) process                                                   A
23. LOGISTICS TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 23-107, AFI 23-201, AFI 23-202, AFPD 23-5,             -
AFM 23-110, AFMAN 23-110, AFMAN 23-220, AFMAN 23-117, AFJMAN 23-209,
AFJMAN 23-215, AFTTP 3-3
23.1. Supply procedures pertaining to maintenance                                        B
23.2. Functions of the base-level Logistics Readiness Squadron (distribution, material   B
management, and contingency operations)
23.2.1. Understand the purpose of the support agreement program                          A
23.3. Roles of the Global Logistics Support Center (GLSC)/DLA                            A
24. OPERATIONS TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-3                                                 -
24.1. Base-level flying operations and supporting logistics functions                    B
24.2. Emergency action plan and contingency situations                                   B
24.3. Operation scheduling factors (i.e. upgrades, RAP/AMC Individual Training           A
Requirements)
25. UNIT LEVEL MAINTENANCE TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-201, AFTTP 3-3                         -
25.1. Common practices and procedures relating to aircraft maintenance * (Observe        B
flight line maintenance actions)
25.2. Flight line communication                                                          B
25.3. Accomplish procedures for aircraft sortie generation                               2b
25.4. Daily munitions operations process                                                 A
26. CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS TR: AFI 10-402, AFI 10-403, AFI 10-404,                        -
AFI 90-201, AFMAN 10-100, AFPD 24-2, AFTTP 3-3
26.1. Elements of an exercise, installation deployment, and IGESP (DOC statement and     B
UTC)
26.2. Elements of a Generation Flow Plan                                                 B
26.3. Wing level command and control functions (ex; ICC, EOC)                            A
27. AIR FORCE INSPECTION PROGRAMS TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 90-201, AFI                        -
20-111, AFTTP 3-3
27.1. Air Force inspection programs                                                      A
28. AF DOCTRINE TR: AFDD-1, AFPD 10-4, AFTTP 3-3, AFI 36-2640V1, AFDD                    -
4-0
28.1. Agile combat support                                                               B
28.2. Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) and Total Force Concept of Operations     A
28.3. Aircraft Maintenance Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP 3-3)                B



                                             49
 28.4. Joint logistics doctrine                                                                     A
 29. CASE STUDY/FORUM (SENIOR OFFICER/SNCO/NCO PERSPECTIVE)                                         -
 TR: AFTTP 3-3
 29.1. Maintenance officer expectations                                                             A
Note: All * items will not have specific objectives written on them, but will be written into the
Instructional Guidance of the Plan of Instruction as flight line observational hours.




                                                 50
                                         Attachment 3
                    COURSE TRAINING STANDARD (CTS)
       ACCELERATED AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE OFFICER COURSE (AAMOC)

                           Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level
1. MUNITIONS TR: AFI 21-101, AFM 91-201                                                    -
1.1. Conventional munitions and components                                                 A
1.2. Guided munitions and components                                                       A
1.3. Unsafe situations pertaining to explosive handling operations                         A
1.4. Conventional munitions accountability procedures                                      A
1.5. Daily fragmentary order and how its change affects aircraft generation requirements   A
2. NUCLEAR OPERATIONS                                                                      -
2.1. Fundamentals of the Nuclear Surety Program (TP 25-1, WSSRs, Certified Equip,          A
PRP, Two-person Concept, NSI and PNAF)
2.2. Nuclear generation operations and concepts (custody transfer, weapons movement,       A
exclusion area, SVA, critical components and tamper control)
2.3. USAF nuclear weapons (B61, B83, ALCM, pylons/MMHE, use control)                       A
3. ARMAMENT TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-20-1                                                      -
3.1. Aircraft gun systems and components                                                   A
3.2. Aircraft weapons release components                                                   A
3.3. Aircraft loading process                                                              A
4. AIR FORCE PUBLICATION SYSTEMS TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-5-1                                  -
4.1. Use and application of technical orders (T.O.)                                        B
4.2. Methods used to keep TOs current                                                      A
5. MAINTENANCE FORMS TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-20-1                                             -
5.1. Perform an exceptional release and maintenance downgrade                              2b
5.2. Perform a maintenance upgrade and perform required procedures to correct symbols      2b
entered in error
6. MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION / FUNCTIONS TR: AFI 21-101                                     -
6.1. Basic maintenance organization                                                        B
6.2. Functional responsibilities of maintenance staff agencies                             B
6.3. Functional responsibilities of maintenance shops and sections                         B
6.4. Levels of maintenance                                                                 A
6.5. Functional responsibilities of maintenance managers                                   B
6.6. Maintenance responsibilities of the Air Logistic Complex (ALC)                        A
7. PERSONNEL TR: AFDD-1, AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232, AFI 36-2640, AFI 38-                    -
201, AFI 38-204, AFMAN 36-606, AFPD 38-2
7.1. Maintenance officer career path and training requirements                             B
7.2. Maintenance officer role in enlisted professional development (including              B
recognition, counseling, Professional Military Education (PME), career progression, etc)



                                              51
7.3. Civilian personnel system                                                           A
7.4. Manpower requirements                                                               A
7.5. Maintenance training process                                                        A
8. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TR: AFI 64-117, AFI 65-601                                        -
8.1. Base level elements of the financial resource management system/resource            A
management programs
9. PROGRAMS TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-113, AFI 21-118, AFI 21-132, TO 00-5-1,               -
TO 00-5-15, TO 00-25-254, TO 1-1-300
9.1. Quality Assurance programs                                                          B
9.2. Aircraft Modification program                                                       A
9.3. Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO) process                                      A
9.4. Automated engine management system TO 00-25-254-1 and 00-25-254-2                   A
9.5. Reliability and maintainability programs                                            A
9.6. Preventive maintenance program                                                      B
9.7. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) and Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program             B
9.8. User responsibilities for maintenance of Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic          A
Equipment (TMDE)
9.9. Crash Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program                         A
10. AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND MISHAP PREVENTION TR:                              -
AFI 91-202, AFI 91-501
10.1. Principles of Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) & mishap            B
prevention
10.2. Unsafe situations which may be encountered in maintenance, identify danger areas   A
in and around the aircraft
10.3. Principles and implementation of Risk Management (RM)                              B
11. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION TR: AFI 32-7005, AFI 32-7042, AFI 32-                       -
7045, AFI 32-90-821
11.1. Application of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) laws to include examples      A
of the impact of state regulations to aircraft maintenance
11.2. Examples of hazardous waste minimization techniques                                A
11.3. Hazardous Communication (HAZCOM)                                                   A
11.4. Proper techniques for issue, use, return, disposal and recycling of hazardous      A
materials
12. PLANS AND SCHEDULING TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244,                         -
AFTTP 3-3
12.1. First look requirements, annual & quarterly plans                                  A
12.2. Develop a monthly, weekly, and daily aircraft utilization and maintenance          2b
schedule
13. STATUS AND MEASUREMENT TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103                        -
13.1. Aircraft status                                                                    A
13.2. Various maintenance information systems                                            A


                                             52
13.3. Use of maintenance indicators                                                     B
13.4. Uses of AEF Reporting Tool (ART) and Status of Resources and Training System      B
(SORTS) reports and Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS)
13.5. Data Integrity Team (DIT) process                                                 A
13.6. Deficiency Analysis (DA) process                                                  A
14. LOGISTICS TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 38-101, AFM 23-110                                    -
14.1. Functions of the Logistics Readiness Squadron (distribution, material             B
management, and contingency operations)
14.2. Supply procedures pertaining to maintenance                                       B
14.3. Roles of the Global Logistics Support Center (GLSC)/DLA                           A
15. OPERATIONS TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 38-101, AFTTP 3-3, TO 00-25-172                      -
15.1. Functions of base-level flying operations and supporting functions                B
15.2. Emergency action plans and contingency situations                                 B
15.3. Operation scheduling factors (i.e. upgrades, RAP/AMC Individual Training          A
Requirements)
16. UNIT LEVEL MAINTENANCE TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-201, TO 00-25-172                      -
16.1. Practices and procedures relating to aircraft servicing operations                A
16.2. Common practices and procedures relating to aircraft maintenance                  B
16.3. Common practices and procedures relating to aircraft ground handling operations   A
16.4. Accomplish procedures for aircraft sortie generation                              2b
16.5. Daily munitions operation process                                                 A
17. CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS TR: AFI 10-401                                                -
17.1. Elements of an exercise, deployment and IGESP (DOC statement and UTC)             B
17.2. Elements of a Generation Flow Plan                                                B
17.3. Wing level command and control functions (ex; ICC, EOC)                           A
18. AF DOCTRINE TR: AFDD-1, AFPD 10-4, AFTTP 3-3, AFI 36-2640V1, AFDD                    -
4-0
18.1. Agile combat support                                                              B
18.2. Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) and Total Force Concept of Operations    A
18.3. Aircraft Maintenance Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP 3-3)               B
18.4. Joint logistics doctrine                                                          A
19. AIR FORCE INSPECTION PROGRAMS TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 90-201, AFI                       -
20-111, AFTTP 3-3
19.1. Air Force inspection programs                                                     A




                                            53
                                        Attachment 4

                      COURSE TRAINING STANDARD (CTS)
               MAINTENANCE OFFICER INTERMEDIATE COURSE (MOIC)


                         Task, Knowledge, and Proficiency Level
1. AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND (AFMC) TR: AFI 21-101, AMCI 21-
101, AMCI 11-201, AFPD 64-1, AFTTP 3-3                                                   -
1.1. Interaction between lifecycle management/acquisition managers and field units       B
1.2. AFMC interaction with field units and MAJCOM staffs                                 A
1.3. Interaction between AFMC supply chain program managers/item managers and
field units                                                                              A
1.4. Functionality of R&D, ODT&E, and Test (i.e. AFRL, Air Force Test Center)            A
2. OPERATIONS TR: AFTTP 3-3, ALL MAJCOM 21-165, AFI 11-101, AFI 11-
102, AFI 11-103, AFI 11-202                                                              -
2.1. DOC Statement and its implications in fulfilling a Wing's mission                   B
2.2. Flying hour program requirements in support of DOC Statement                        B
2.2.1. Airframe/equipment, facilities and personnel factors to determine maintenance
production capabilities                                                                  B
2.2.2. Balance between operational requirements and maintenance capabilities             B
3. TRAINING TR: AFI 36-2201, CFETP 21AX/21MX                                             -
3.1. Purpose and uses of a Special Certification Roster (SCR)                            B
3.2. Requirements for officer and enlisted maintenance training                          B
3.3. SEI’s, SHRED’s and qualification levels                                             B
4. PERSONNEL READINESS TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244, AFI 38-201                            -
4.1. How to read and interpret manpower documents                                        B
4.2. Manpower modeling/LCOM                                                              B
4.3. Purpose of the Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS) AEF Reporting
Tool (ART) and Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS)                                 B
4.4. Purpose, process, and consequences of an Authorization Change Request (ACR)         A
5. BUDGET TR: AFI 65-601 V1, AFPD 16-5, DODI 5000.2                                      -
5.1. Unit’s role in the planning, programming, and execution of the wing budget          A
6. ANALYSIS TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-3, METRICS HANDBOOK                                  -
6.1. Maintenance Management Analysis Section                                             B
6.2. Utilization of critical maintenance metrics and data                                B
7. EXPLOSIVE AND WEAPONS SAFETY TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 91-201,
AFPAM 90-902, WSSR, AFTTP 3-3                                                            -
7.1. Regulatory aspects pertaining to munitions and munitions storage                    A
7.2. Perform classroom site planning for explosive and weapons safety in peacetime and
contingency operations                                                                   2b



                                             54
7.3. Nuclear Surety Management principles                                                 A
7.3.1. Nuclear Enterprise Organizational structure                                        A
7.3.2. Case Study application (Minot)                                                     A
7.4. Nuclear Certified Equipment Management                                               A
8. QUALITY ASSURANCE (QA) TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-204                                      -
8.1. Utilization of QA as a management tool (PIP and MSEP)                                B
9. MATERIEL MANAGEMENT PROCESSES TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFI 21-101,
21-201, AFTTP 3-3                                                                         -
9.1. Sources of Supply                                                                    B
9.1.1. Intermediate Repair Enhancement Program                                            B
9.2. Global Ammunition Control Point (GACP) manages War Reserve Materiel
munitions requirements, allocations, reporting, and global asset positioning              B
10. DEPLOYMENTS/EMPLOYMENT TR: AFI 10-401, AFI 10-403, AFI 10-404,
AFPD 10-4, JP 5-0, AFTTP 3-3, AFTTP 3-4                                                   -
10.1. Resources and information required to build the logistics annex of an In-Garrison
Expeditionary Site Plan/ESP (maintenance capabilities, facilities, LIMFACs, etc)          B
10.2. Types of Readiness Spares Packages (RSP)                                            A
10.2.1. Impact of RSP shortfalls in the deployment/employment process                     B
10.3. Agile Combat Support                                                                A
10.3.1. Deployment process, from tasking to launch (i.e. Generation Flow Plan,
TPFDD)                                                                                    B
10.3.2. Employment process                                                                B
10.3.3. Redeployment/reconstitution process                                               B
10.4. Interfacing with AMC global transportation network                                  B
10.4.1. Expeditionary Mobility Task Force (EMTF)                                          A
10.4.2. 618th Tanker/Airlift Control Center (TACC)                                        A
10.5. Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) Construct                                             B
10.6. Key elements to expeditionary site surveys affecting maintenance and flying
operations                                                                                A
10.7. Interaction between Expeditionary Wing and AFFOR and Combined Air
Operations Center                                                                         B
10.8. Air Tasking Order process                                                           B
10.9. Key elements of Command and Control in the Joint Environment                        A
11. MAINTENANCE LEADERSHIP AND PROCESS MANAGEMENT TR: AFI
21-101, 00-20-1, AFTTP 3-3, DODI 5010.42, DOD CPI GUIDEBOOK, AF
PORTAL AFSO 21                                                                            -
11.1. Maintenance Operations Officer Responsibilities                                     A
11.2. Documentation management                                                            B
11.3. Workforce Management                                                                B



                                              55
11.3.1. Total Force Integration                                                          B
11.3.2. Contract Maintenance                                                             A
11.3.3. Civil Service                                                                    A
11.4. Centralized Asset Management effects on Wing Budget Processes                      A
11.5. Maintenance/Operations Plans and Scheduling                                        B
11.6. Fifth-Gen Management (i.e. Low Observable, Information Systems)                    A
11.7. Continuous Process Improvement                                                     B
11.7.1. Process improvement initiatives currently used in the field (i.e. AFSO21, LEAN
and 6S)                                                                                  B
12. REPAIR NETWORK OPERATIONS TR: AF VISION 2020                                         -
12.1. Repair Network Integration and Centralized Repair Facility                         A
13. COMMAND FORUM (PANEL FORUM WITH CURRENT/GRADUATED
SQUADRON COMMANDERS)                                                                     -
13.1. Maintenance officer expectations                                                   A




                                             56
