DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                             CFETP 2A7X3
Headquarters US Air Force                                                 Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                               1 August 2013




                           AFSC 2A7X3

             AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL

                        MAINTENANCE




       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
         AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
Blank Page
                                                                                                     CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013

                         CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                        AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL MAINTENANCE SPECIALTY
                                        AFSC 2A7X3
                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS
Title                                                                                                                                         Page

PART I
Preface .............................................................................................................................................1
Abbreviations/Terms Explained .....................................................................................................2

Section A – General Information ...................................................................................................5
   Purpose of the CFETP
   Use of the CFETP
   Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B – Career Progression and Information ...........................................................................6
   Specialty Description
   Skill/Career Progression
       Apprentice (3) Level
       Journeyman (5) Level
       Craftsman (7) Level
       Superintendent (9) Level
   Training Decisions
   Community College of the Air Force
   Career Field Path

Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements ...........................................................................13
   Purpose
   Specialty Qualification
       Apprentice Level Training
       Journeyman Level Training
       Craftsman Level Training
       Superintendent Level Training
Section D – Resource Constraints ................................................................................................16
Section E – Transitional Training Guide ......................................................................................16

PART II
Section A – Course Objective List ................................................................................................17
Section B – Support Materials .......................................................................................................18
Section C – Training Course Index ...............................................................................................18
Section D – MAJCOM Unique Requirements ..............................................................................20
Section E – Specialty Training Standard.......................................................................................20
________________________
OPR: 359 TRS Det 1/TRR
Approved By: HQ USAF/A4LF (CMSgt Michael Healy)
Supersedes: 31 December 2008
Number of printed pages: 40




                                                                          i
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                AIRCRAFT STRUCTURAL MAINTENANCE SPECIALTY
                                AFSC 2A7X3

PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 2A7X3, Aircraft Structural Maintenance
specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all
aspects of career field training. To read, review, or print a copy of the current CFETP, go to the
Aircraft Maintenance Homepage at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-LG-AF-35.

This CFETP supersedes 2A7X3 CFETP, 31 Dec 08.

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts; both parts are used by supervisors to plan, manage, and
control training within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints to accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower,
equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements to support
career field restructures.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen have satisfied training requirements.
Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training Package (QTP)
which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training course
index that supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to support training.
Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies major command
(MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training
required for the associated qualification needs. Section E identifies the Specialty Training
Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training; Air Education
and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course/core task and
correspondence course requirements. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to
identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                 1
                                                                      CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). A formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one
or more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Doctrine Development Center (AFDDEC). The center researches, develops, and
produces Air Force basic and operational doctrine, as well as joint and multinational doctrine.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications.
The tasks on an AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official. A person the commander assigns to determine an individual’s ability to
perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training. Additional training that exceeds requirements with emphasis on
present or future duty assignments.

Contract Training. Training that receives the same priority funding as Air Force directed
training. It supports initial groups of instructors, operators, etc., that the Air Force requires for
new or modified weapon systems.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty. This gives units needed flexibility to
manage their workforce training.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements
and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-/7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors
use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air
Force Training Program.



                                                   2
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


Course Training Standard (CTS). Training standard that identifies the training members will
receive in a specific course not covered in the CFETP.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training. Special or regular on-site training conducted by a training
detachment (TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS). The primary Air Force production-oriented,
base-level automated Maintenance Information System (MIS).

G081 for Mobility (G081/MAF Log C2). Provides both a maintenance management system
and a logistics command and control system for Mobility Air Forces (MAF).

Inspection, Corrosion and Repair Recording (ICARRs) Program. Maintains a list of files
containing tail numbers, action taken codes, malfunction codes, parts list, maintenance tasks that
require reporting for C-130 aircraft.

Initial Skills Training (IST). A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level
AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

MAJCOM Mandatory Course Listing (MMCL). Identifies mandatory maintenance training
requirements for initial technical school graduates, retrainees, and personnel with no experience
on assigned mission design series (MDS) aircraft. It also ensures maintenance personnel receive
training commensurate to their current duty position.

Mission Design Series (MDS). Aircraft (i.e., A-10, F-16, C-130).

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to
do the job.


                                                 3
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment, that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an Airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between Air Education and Training Command and the functional
user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force Specialty are taught in
formal schools, career development courses, and exportable courses.

Training by Other Government Agencies. This training includes training conducted by the
Army, Navy, Air Force agency or unit other than AETC, and other government agencies inside
or outside of the Department of Defense (DoD).

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and
CDCs required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and
Training Pipeline Manager, of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional
managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements.

Web Site Links:

AFCDA                  http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/

CCAF                   http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/

CAF MCL                https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-TE-AC-42

ETCA                   https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

HQ USAF/A4LF           https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-LG-AF-
                       35
MAF MCL                https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-ED-AM-
                       91
367 TRS/TRSS           https://367trss.hill.af.mil

982 MXS/LGMS           https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                       af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageId=s6925EC134F0A
                       0FB5E044080020E329A9

                                                 4
                                                                     CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


ASM COP                https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-LG-OO-06

ASM School COP         https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=AE-ED-00-23

AF Corrosion           https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
Office                 af/afp40/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&pageId=681742&channelP
                       ageId=-1986143

AF Composite           https://hillnet.hill.af.mil/ACO
Office


Section A - General Information

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides information necessary for Air Force Career
Field Managers (AFCFMs), MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFMs), commanders, training
managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career
field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A7X3 should
receive to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills,
upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS
specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this
specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is conducted by AETC at Pensacola NAS,
FL. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
Airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to
do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency
training is additional training either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-
the-job training (OJT), provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes; some are:

1.1. To serve as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field
training program. It is also used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in
an individual’s career.

1.2. To identify task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty
and recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. To list training courses that are available in the specialty and identifies sources of training
and the training delivery method.

1.4. To identify major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.



                                                  5
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


2. Uses of the CFETP. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, Field Training
Detachment (FTD), and exportable training based on requirements established by the users and
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT, resident
training, contract training, or exportable courses. MAJCOM-developed mandatory training to
support this AFS must be identified for inclusion into the plan and must not duplicate other
available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The
AETC training manager for AFSC 2A7X3 will initiate an annual review of this document by
AETC and MFM to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and
AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements.
Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD),
paragraph 1. Designs, repairs, modifies, and fabricates aircraft, metal, plastic, composite,
advanced composite, and bonded structural parts and components. Applies preservative
treatments to aircraft, aerospace ground equipment (AGE), and support equipment (SE). Related
DoD Occupational Subgroup: 160300.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
(AFECD), paragraph 2.

4.2.1. Assembles structural parts and components to meet requirements for preserving structural
integrity. Assesses damage to aircraft structural components and coatings. Advises on structural
repair, modification, and corrosion protection treatment with respect to original strength, weight,
and contour to maintain structural integrity. Ensures aircraft component balance is maintained.
Assembles repairs using special fasteners and adhesives. Checks repairs for serviceability
according to specifications and technical publications. Manufactures jigs, fixtures, forms, and
molds.




                                                 6
                                                                      CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


4.2.2. Paints aircraft, and AGE/SE. Identifies, removes, and treats corrosion using mechanical
and chemical procedures. Applies corrosion protective coatings. Applies aircraft paint schemes
and markings.

4.2.3. Uses metalworking equipment and tools to form, cut, bend, and fasten replacement or
repair parts to damaged structures and components. Fabricates, repairs, and assembles tubing
and cable assemblies for aerospace weapon systems and AGE/SE. Maintains and inspects tools
and equipment. Performs operator maintenance and service inspections on shop equipment and
tools. Ensures lockout and tagout procedures are accomplished prior to performing shop
equipment maintenance. Stores, handles, and disposes of hazardous waste and materials
according to environmental standards.

4.2.4. Inspects structures and components and determines operational status. Interprets
inspection findings and determines corrective action adequacy. Posts entries and maintains
maintenance and inspection records. Recommends methods to improve equipment performance
and maintenance procedures. Uses automated maintenance systems. Inputs, validates, and
analyzes data processed to automated systems. Clears and closes out completed maintenance
discrepancies in automated maintenance systems.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, manage, and
conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure each individual receives necessary training at appropriate points in their career. The
following narrative and AFSC 2A7X3 career field table identify the skill/career progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Following Basic Military Training, initial skills training will be
provided in a resident course at Detachment 1, 359th Training Squadron, Naval Air Station,
Pensacola, Florida. The course will lay the foundation for additional training at the graduate's
first duty assignment. Trainees will utilize the Career Development Courses (CDCs), task
qualification training, and other exportable courses to progress in their career field. Once the
trainer task certifies the trainee, the trainee may perform the task unsupervised.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and skill in
troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. After having 48 months in the Air Force
(or sooner if individual has a line number for SSgt), 5-levels will attend Airman Leadership
School (ALS) to enhance their Professional Military Education (PME). A 5-level will be
considered for appointment as unit trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for
Weighted Airman Promotion testing. They should also consider continuing their education
toward a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree in their respective career field.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions such as shift leader, element chief, shop chief, task certifier, and various staff positions.
Exportable MDS specific courses and MAJCOM/unit directed courses are also available. A 7-
level should take courses or obtain added knowledge in management of resources and personnel.

                                                   7
                                                                 CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is encouraged in their
respective career field. In addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals will attend the
Noncommissioned Officer Academy.

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief,
production supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget,
manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing
education. Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFS is
also recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Aircraft Structural Maintenance
career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training
requirements. The strategy must ensure we develop affordable training, eliminate duplication,
and prevent a fragmented approach to training. The following training decisions were made at
the career field utilization and training workshop held at 359 TRS Det 1, Naval Air Station,
Pensacola, Florida from 4-8 March 2013.

6.1. Initial Skills. Multiple changes were made to the STS affecting the initial skills course.
Changes were made to line items, training references and terminology. Decisions were made to
delete initial skills training on Dimpling Machine, Use Hand Tube Benders, Classify Damage-
Advanced Composite, Troubleshoot Spray Equipment and Sempens, Brushes and Rollers.
Additions to training include; Paint Booth Operational Fundamentals, Taper lok Fundamentals,
Visual inspection and evaluation of tubing damage, Material Storage, Material Handling, and
Use of Adhesives, Foams, Films and Tapes. The projected course length of the initial skills
course remains 76 days.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Requirements. During the review of the 2A7X3 STS, the total
number of 5-level core tasks increased from 69 to 78. 2A753 CDCs will require a major rewrite
to remove unnecessary information and reorganization may result in a decrease from five to four
volumes.

6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements. 2A7X3 STS, 7-level core tasks increased from to 3.

6.4. Supplemental Training. The team made several significant changes to the in-resident
supplemental courses. Courses remain applicable to both ASM and LOASM personnel.

6.4.1. Aircraft Metal Bonded Repair. The team recommended deleting Phosphoric Acid
Containment System (PACS) training and reducing maximum group size from ten to eight.
Course objectives needing additional time will utilized the PACS time savings. No change in
course length is anticipated.

6.4.2. General Advanced Composite Repair. The decision was made to remove “advanced”
from the course title and to increase the maximum group size from eight to ten. Several
knowledge/lecture items within the course are being shortened to reduce redundancy. These



                                               8
                                                                                          CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


time savings will be incorporated within the existing Course Training Standard and objectives
and will result in a decrease in course length from 16 to 15 training days.

6.4.3. Aircraft Balancing and Fasteners. New changes include deleting Aircraft Balancing.
Course will be renamed Aircraft Specialized Fasteners, Stress Relief, and Repair Applications.
Fasteners will be upgraded to more modern fasteners and training specialized applications to
include Cold Working Holes, Restoration of Oversized holes and Utilizing E-Drills. Course
length will reduce from six to five days.

6.4.4. Corrosion Prevention and Control (MTT). No changes were requested for this course.

6.4.5. Basic Repairs to Composites (MTT). No changes were requested for this course.

6.5. Continuation Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements which were not
taught through initial or upgrade training are assigned to unit training or Field Training
Detachments. The purpose of the continuation training program is to provide additional training
exceeding minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty
positions. MAJCOMs may develop a proficiency training program that ensures individuals in
the Aircraft Structural Maintenance career field receive the necessary training at the appropriate
point in their career. The program identifies both mandatory and optional training requirements.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF is one of several federally chartered
degree-granting institutions and the only 2-year institution serving only military enlisted
personnel. The college is a multi-campus institution and is regionally accredited through Air
University by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
(SACS) to award AAS degrees designed for specific Air Force occupational specialties. The
college offers 68 technical degree programs serving more than 321,000 students at more than
100 worldwide affiliated technical training schools. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon
completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in
Applied Sciences technical degree.

7.1. CCAF Degree Requirements. All enlisted airmen are automatically entered into the
CCAF program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the
following requirements must be met:

                                                                                                   Semester Hours

       Technical Education...................................................................................24
       Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ..........................................6
       Physical Education .......................................................................................4
       General Education ......................................................................................15
       Program Elective ........................................................................................15

                                                                                                    Total: 64

7.1.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Completion of the career field apprentice
course satisfies some semester hours of the technical education requirements. A minimum of 24

                                                                9
                                                                     CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


semester hours of Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester
hours applied from Technical Core/Technical Elective courses.

7.1.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Enlisted
Professional Military Education (EPME) and/or civilian management courses.

7.1.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.1.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.

7.1.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.2. Professional Certifications. Certifications assist the professional development of our
Airmen by broadening their knowledge and skills. Additionally, specific certifications may be
award collegiate credit by CCAF and civilian colleges, saving time and Air Force tuition
assistance funds. It also helps airmen to be better prepared for transition to civilian life. To learn
more about professional certifications and certification programs offered by CCAF, visit
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. In addition to its associate degree program,
CCAF offers the following certification programs and resources:

7.2.1. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airframe and Powerplant (A&P)
Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance technicians are eligible to pursue FAA A&P
certification based on training and experience in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulation
Part 65. The DoD established the Joint Service Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification
Council (JSAMTCC) to standardize the eligibility and certification process for the military and
provide direction and resources necessary to fill the gaps within military training and experience.
Completing the Air Force A&P Certification Program, managed by CCAF, will fill training and
experience gaps, ensuring FAA eligibility. The program consists of three Air University Online
A&P Specialized Courses, OJT and experience requirements contained in a Qualification
Training Package (QTP). Technicians may enroll in the program once they have been awarded
the 5-skill level. To learn more, visit CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.
CCAF awards 30 semester hours for FAA A&P certification and 18 semester hours for FAA
Airframe or Powerplant certification.

7.2.2. SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance
technicians are eligible to pursue SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification based on
aviation training and experience. SpaceTEC certification is endorsed by NASA and the
Aerospace industry. Air University Online offers a Specialized Course to assist technicians
prepare for the Aerospace Technician certification exams. To learn more, visit SpaceTEC at

                                                 10
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


http://www.spacetec.org/ or CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. CCAF
awards 25 semester hours for the SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification.

7.2.3. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC
Program for qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated a
high level of professional accomplishment. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes
the instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to
teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching experience.

7.2.4. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF
offers the ISD Certification Program for qualified curriculum developers and managers who are
formally assigned at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses.
The ISD Certification is a professional credential that recognizes the curriculum developer’s or
manager’s extensive training, education, qualifications and experience required to develop and
manage CCAF courses. The certification also recognizes the individual’s ISD qualifications and
experience in planning, developing, implementing and managing instructional systems.

 7.2.5. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC Program
for qualified Air Force NCO’s. The PMC is a professional credential awarded by CCAF that
formally recognizes an individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and
management, as well as professional accomplishments. The program provides a structured
professional development track that supplements Enlisted Professional Military Education
(EPME) and Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP).

7.2.6. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented
CERT to increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air Force
occupational specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and provides
information related to specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian occupation
equivalencies (US Department of Labor); CCAF degree programs; national professional
certifications; certifying agencies; and professional organizations.

7.2.7. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Instructor Requirements:
Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring
to become an AETC instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed
faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools.




                                                11
                                                                           CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


  8. Career Field Path

  8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A7X3 AF Specialty.
                               Table 8.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                                                    Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                 Rank      Average   Earliest  High Year Of Tenure
                                                              Sew-On    Sew-On          (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)         Amn       6 months
                                                    A1C      16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)               Amn       6 months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.            A1C      16 months
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for          SrA        3 years        28
                                                                                                 8 years
  retrainees.                                                                months
- Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                     - Must be a SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian equivalent.
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service     - Must attend the AF Training Course.
  or be a SSgt selectee.                           -Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt   positions, units, and/or work centers with specialized
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).                       training standardization and certification requirements.
                     Trainer
- Trained and qualified to perform the task to
   be trained
- Must attend the Air Force Training Course
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                SSgt      4.7 years      3 years            15 years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
- Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for
  retrainees.
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
  mission design aircraft.
- Complete appropriate CDC.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)              TSgt      10.5 years     5 years            20 years
- Must be a TSgt, MSgt selectee, or MSgt.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt    MSgt      16.8 years     8 years            24 years
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy USAF Senior                SMSgt      19.5 years    11 years            26 years
  NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a MSgt, SMSgt, or SMSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                       CMSgt      22.8 years    14 years            30 years




                                                      12
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the 2A7X3 career field are defined in terms of
tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award, and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements
are identified in the STS at Part II, Sections A and E of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements. The various skill levels in this career field are
defined in terms of tasks and knowledge proficiency requirements for each skill level. They are
stated in broad general terms and establish the standards of performance. Unit work centers must
develop a structured training program to ensure the following requirements are met.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training (3-Level):

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. The following knowledge is mandatory: aircraft construction features;
identification and characteristics of aerospace materials; repair of metal, tubing, cable, plastic,
fiberglass, bonded honeycomb, and composite structural components; removal and replacement
of fasteners; shop drawing and sheet metal layout techniques; shop mathematics; corrosion
identification, removal, repair, and prevention; cleaning of metals; application of protective
coatings and markings; proper use, mixing, and storage of acids, solvents, alcohol, caustics,
primers, and paints; technical orders and directives; and proper handling and disposal of
hazardous waste and materials in accordance with federal, state, and local directives.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
mathematics, algebra, chemistry, physics, mechanical drawing, and metal working is desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A733, completion of the basic aircraft structural
maintenance course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. None

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The initial skills course will provide the required
knowledge, qualification, and, if applicable, certification.

10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training (BMT), completion of
the Aircraft Structural Maintenance Apprentice course is mandatory. This course satisfies the
knowledge and training resource requirements for award of the 3-skill level.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training (5-Level):

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

                                                 13
                                                                     CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013



10.2.1.1. Knowledge. The 5-level must have advanced knowledge of the following: aircraft
construction features; identification and characteristics of aerospace materials; repair of metal,
tubing, cable, plastic, fiberglass, bonded honeycomb, and composite structural components;
removal and replacement of fasteners; shop drawing and sheet metal layout techniques; shop
mathematics; corrosion identification, removal, repair, and prevention; cleaning of metals;
application of protective coatings and markings; proper use, mixing, and storage of acids,
solvents, alcohol, caustics, primers, and paints; technical orders and directives; and proper
handling and disposal of hazardous waste and materials in accordance with federal, state and
local directives.

10.2.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.2.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A753, the 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the
core tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current
knowledge base, and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFS 2A733. Also, experience in
fabricating, repairing, assembling, and installing aircraft metals, plastics, fiberglass, composites,
and honeycomb parts; and corrosion identification, removal, and applying coatings and
markings.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. A minimum of 12 months on-the-job training (9
months for retrainees), completion of the 2A753 CDC, and completion of the 5-level core tasks
represent the resources needed for award of the 5-skill level.

10.2.3. Implementation. Training to the 5-level is performed by the units utilizing this STS,
exportable courses, and CDCs. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 2A753 CDC,
completion of all core tasks, and a minimum of 12 months upgrade training.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training (7-Level):

10.3.1 Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to 5-level knowledge, a 7-level must have knowledge of:
supervisory responsibilities (i.e., workplace safety, training documentation, equipment
management, supply management, etc.) and workload planning (i.e., job prioritization, task
assignment, personnel scheduling, etc.).

10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of mandatory 2AX7X CDCs, 7-level core tasks.

                                                 14
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A753. Also, experience
supervising functions dealing with corrosion identification, prevention, and repair; applying
protective coatings and markings; and fabricating, assembling, and repairing metal, fiberglass,
composites, honeycomb, and plastic components.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of CDC 2AX7X, along with completion
of AFCFM directed core tasks, represent the resources required for award of the 7-skill level.

10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level will require completion of all core tasks,
minimum of 12 months OJT as SSgt, and completion of the 2AX7X CDC.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level):

10.4.1 Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the official specialty description
in Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), paragraph 3.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. To perform duties at the 9-skill level, an individual must possess basic
knowledge of the following: aircraft structural maintenance, low observable aircraft structural
maintenance, metals technology, corrosion control, and non-destructive inspection methods;
characteristics of metals identification; concepts and application of maintenance directives;
maintenance data reporting; and proper use, handling, and disposal of hazardous waste and
materials in accordance with federal, state and local directives.

10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level. However, completion of a CCAF degree is desirable.

10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A790, promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2A790, qualification in and possession of AFSC
2A771, 2A772, 2A773, or 2A775 is mandatory. Also, experience in managing or directing
repair activities for aircraft structural maintenance, metals technology, low observable aircraft
structural maintenance, or non-destructive inspection specialties and functions.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. None.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.




                                                 15
                                                                  CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training. There are no manpower/man-year or equipment/resource
constraints.

13. Five-Level Training: There are no constraints.

14. Seven-Level Training. There are no constraints.

Section E. - Transitional Training Guide. There are no transition training requirements. This
area is reserved.




                                                16
                                                                  CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


PART II

Section A - Course Objective List

1. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each
task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard which states what is
expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes
place. The behavior is the action a student must demonstrate to accomplish a task (i.e., remove
and install wheel and tire assembly). The standard is the level of performance that is measured
to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses letter code(s) to
identify how it is measured. All objectives use the PC code which indicates a progress check is
used to measure subject or task knowledge. Progress checks are also used to measure student
accomplishment of performance objectives. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is
used to measure the subject and/or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W
indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written
test and a performance progress check.

2. Standard. The minimum standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for
performance measurement are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual
progress checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s progress
on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students
may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.
Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

3. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item
the objective supports. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section E of this CFETP for
an explanation of the proficiency codes. All task performance items are taught to the “2b”
proficiency level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need
assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine
step-by-step procedures for doing the task.

4. Course Objectives. A detailed listing of initial skills course objectives may be obtained by
submitting a written request to the AETC Training Manager, 359 TRS Det 1/TRR, 230 Chevalier
Field Avenue, Suite A, NAS Pensacola FL 32508-5142.




                                                17
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


Section B - Support Material

5. The following list of support material is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas. Support material is any training package designed to enhance the
learning process at any level of training. Refer to the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses. ETCA can be accessed at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.

5.1. Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from (or under development by)
367 TRS/TRSS, Hill AFB, Utah. Their course catalog is available on the Internet at
https://367trss.hill.af.mil. Questions should be referred to the customer service number at
DSN 586-4014.

Section C - Training Course Index

6. Purpose. This index lists Air Force resident, Air Force Career Development Academy
(AFCDA), and exportable courses used to support training for this specialty. Refer to the Air
Force Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) at https://etca.randolph.af.mil for
information on AETC formal courses listed below. For further information on the following
courses, contact the OPR at:

       359 TRS Det1/TRR
       230 Chevalier Field Ave, Suite A
       NAS Pensacola, FL 32508-5142
       DSN 495-7483

6.1. Air Force In-Resident/Mobile Courses:

COURSE NUMBER                                    TITLE                                 OPR
JCABP2A733 048C            Aircraft Structural Maintenance Apprentice             359 TRS Det 1
JCAZP2A753 0B1B            Aircraft Metal Bonded Repair                           359 TRS Det 1
JCAZP2A753 0C1B            General Composite Repair                               359 TRS Det 1
JCAZP2A753 0F1B            Aircraft Specialized Fasteners, Stress Relief, and     359 TRS Det 1
                           Repair Applications
J7AZT2A753 0M1B            Corrosion Prevention and Control (MTT)                 359 TRS Det 1
J7AZT2A753 0M2B            Basic Repairs to Composites (MTT)                      359 TRS Det 1


6.2. Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA) Courses.

 COURSE NUMBER                                  TITLE                                 OPR
CDC 2A753                  Aircraft Structural Maintenance Journeyman            359 TRS Det 1
CDC 2AX7X                  Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                       HQ USAF/A4LF

                                                18
                                                                  CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013



6.3. Exportable Courses.

 COURSE NUMBER                             TITLE                              OPR     MEDIA
                          G081 Maintenance Data Collection                  367 TRS   WBT
                          Corrosion and Prevention                          367 TRS   CBT
                          Aircraft Wash Procedures                          367 TRS   Video

For further information contact the OPR at:

359 TRS Det 1
230 Chevalier Field Ave
NAS Pensacola, FL 32580-5142
DSN 459-7483

Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from or are under development by
367 TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB, Utah and 982 MXS/TSU at Sheppard AFB, Texas.

For further information contact the OPRs at:

  367 TRS/TRSS                         982 MXS/LGMS
  6058 Aspen Ave                       912 I Ave Ste 4
  Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805              Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334
  DSN 586-4014                         DSN 736-3834
  https://367trss.hill.af.mil          https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
                                       af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?command=org&channelPageI
                                       d=s6925EC134F0A0FB5E044080020E329A9


6.4. Courses Under Development/Revision.

    COURSE NUMBER                                    TITLE                         OPR
JCABP2A733 048D                    Aircraft Structural Maintenance Apprentice 359 TRS Det 1
JCAZP2A753 0B1C                    Aircraft Metal Bonded Repair                  359 TRS Det 1
JCAZP2A753 0C1C                    General Composite Repair                      359 TRS Det 1
JCAZP2A753 0F1C                    Aircraft Specialized Fasteners, Stress        359 TRS Det 1
                                   Relief, and Repair Applications




                                               19
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


Section D – MAJCOM-Unique Requirements.

7. For MAJCOM-unique requirements, refer to the following web sites:

Combat Air Force (CAF):
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-TE-AC-42


Section E - Specialty Training Standard

8. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and
Training Command for the apprentice class beginning 6 December 2013. The 5-level CDC need
date is 3 April 2014.

9. Purpose of This STS. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

9.1. Lists in column 1 (Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical References) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level.

9.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.

9.2.1. Core tasks which are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not
required for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training).

9.2.2. For units with more than one mission design series (MDS) (e.g., A-10, C-130) aircraft,
upgrade trainees need only complete core tasks on a single mission design. MFMs, unit
commanders, and/or supervisors may require trainees to complete core task training on
additional mission design aircraft, if desired. If some of these core tasks involve training in
another unit on base, trainees must still complete all core tasks relevant to at least one mission
design aircraft. All units are bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate
core task trainees from other units.

9.2.3. Units that use the G081 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete
Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS) core tasks. However, these units will complete
G081 and maintenance data collection CBT requirements to meet the intent of core task
requirements for IMDS.

9.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems Training
Business Area (TBA) to document technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must
show a certification completed date.

9.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. When two

                                                 20
                                                                    CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


codes are used in columns 4A and 4C (e.g., 2b/b), the first code is the established requirement
for resident training on the task/knowledge, and the second code indicates the level of training
provided in the course due to equipment shortages or other resource constraints. See
AFCDA/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current CDC listing.

9.5. Guides development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the Airman Advancement
Division by SNCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample
knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most
appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in
the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2502, Airman
Promotion/Demotion Program. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force
Reserve.

10. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

11. Job Qualification Standard. The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-
the-job training when placed in automated training management systems, and used according to
AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level.
"Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following
requirements apply:

11.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201.
Automated records, utilizing TBA reflecting this STS, is mandatory. Use of Part II and
attachments one and two of this CFETP are mandatory in individual training records. Use of
Part I of this CFETP and attachment three is optional. As a minimum, complete the following in
Part II of this CFETP: date training started, date training completed, trainee initials, and trainer
initials.

11.1.1. Transcribing From Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs
are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, conversion of all training records to this CFETP STS is
mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

11.1.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the supervisor
identifies CFETP Part II training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and
ensures, as a minimum, that trainees cover the mandatory items in Air Force Enlisted
Classification Directory (AFECD). For two-time CDC course exam failures, supervisors
identify all Part II items corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee completes
a study of references, undergoes evaluation by the trainer, and receives certification on the
CFETP Part II. Supervisors must document successful completion of career knowledge prior
to submission of a CDC waiver.



                                                 21
                                                                   CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013


11.2. Work center Job Qualification Standard (WJQS). When additional items not listed in
the CFETP Part II are necessary in the current duty assignment, enter them on the WJQS.

12. Recommendations: Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
the AETC training manager at 359 TRS Det 1/TRR, 230 Chevalier Field Ave, Suite A, NAS
Pensacola, FL 32508-5142, DSN 459-7483. Reference specific STS paragraphs. A customer
service information line has been installed for the supervisor's convenience to identify graduates
who may have received over or under training on task/knowledge items listed in this training
standard. For a quick response to problems, call our customer service information line, DSN
736-5236.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                       JUDITH A. FEDDER,
                                               Lieutenant General, USAF
                                               DCS/Installations, Logistics and Mission Support

3 Attachments
1. Proficiency Code Key
2. Specialty Training Standard (STS)
3. STS – 2AX7X CDC




                                                22
                                                                                                           CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                  PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee


Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                        Initials (Written)            SSAN


                                                Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                     N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I




                                              QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                                      Scale
                                      Value   Definition: The individual
                                         1    Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                                Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
                                         2
      Performance                             Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
                                         3
         Levels                               Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                         4    (Highly Proficient)
                                         a    Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
        *Task                            b    Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
      Knowledge                          c    Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
       Levels                                 (Operating Principles)
                                        d     Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)

                                        A     Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
      **Subject                               Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
                                        B
      Knowledge                               Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
                                        C
       Levels                                 Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
                                        D
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                          23
                                                                                                                                   Attachment 1
                                                  SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                           CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                              Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                              Notes)
                                                                                                                                                A       B          C
                                                                       A         B        A         B         C          D           E        3-Skill 5-Skill 7-Skill Level
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                                  Level Level
                                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                                         Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
ATTACHMENT 2
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: All tasks and knowledge identified as training requirements in column 4A will be taught during wartime.
NOTE 3: Items in column 2A/2B marked with an asterisk (*) identify core tasks.


CFETP Date            1 Aug 13
1.1                   SECURITY
                      TR: DOD 5200.1-R, Information                                                                                             A         -          -         -
                      Security Program
1.2                   AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
                      and HEALTH (AFOSH)
                      PROGRAM
                      TR: AFIs 91-203, 91-302; TOs
                      00-110N-3 and -42 series;
                      applicable
                      OSHA standards
1.2.1                 Hazards of AFSC 2A7X3
1.2.1.1               In shop                                                                                                                   A         -          -         -
1.2.1.2               Flight line                                                                                                               A         -          -         -
1.2.1.3               Respiratory protection equipment                                                                                          -         B          -         -
1.2.1.4               Maintain AF Form 55 (Employee
                      Safety and Health Record)                                                                                                 -         -          -         -
                      TR: AFI 91-203
1.2.1.5               Maintenance Resource Management
                                                                                                                                                A         -          -         -
                      (MRM)
1.3                   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS and
                      WASTE HANDLING
                      ACCORDING to
                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                      STANDARDS
                      TR: AFI 91-203
1.3.1                 Types of hazardous materials/fluids                                                                                       B         A          -         -
1.3.2                 Handling procedures                                                                                                       B         B          -         -
1.3.3                 Storage and labeling                                                                                                      B         A          -         -
1.3.4                 Proper disposal of hazardous
                                                                                                                                                B         A          -         -
                      materials
1.4                   HAZARDOUS
                      COMMUNICATION TRAINING                                                                                                    -         -          -         -
                      TR: AFI 90-821
1.5                   SUPERVISION and TRAINING
                      TR: AFIs 21-101; 36-2201;
                      Air Force Enlisted Classification
                      Directory (AFECD)
1.5.1                 Perform corrosion manager
                                                                                                                                                -         -          -         -
                      responsibilities
1.5.2                 Aircraft wash management                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
1.5.3                 Train personnel
1.5.3.1               Determine training requirements                                                                                           -         -          -         -
1.5.3.2               Assign OJT trainers or supervisors                                                                                        -         -          -         -

                                                                               24

                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                          2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                   Notes)
                                                                                                                                     A       B          C
                                                            A         B        A         B         C          D           E        3-Skill 5-Skill 7-Skill Level
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                       Level Level
                                                          5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                              Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
1.5.3.3            Conduct training                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
1.5.3.4            Maintain records                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
1.5.3.5            Counsel trainees on training
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   progress
1.5.4              OJT trainer requirements
1.5.4.1            Prepare teaching outlines or task
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   breakdowns
1.5.4.2            Provide trainees theory and train on
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   actual equipment
1.5.5              OJT task certifier requirements
1.5.5.1            Evaluate trainee’s knowledge and
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   abilities
1.5.5.2            Provide supervisor and trainer
                   feedback on results of training
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   provided, and trainee’s strengths
                   and/or weaknesses
1.5.6              Plan and schedule maintenance and
                   repair work
1.5.6.1            Analyze workload requirements                                                                                     -         -          -         -
1.5.6.2            Coordinate with other agencies                                                                                    -         -          -         -
1.5.6.3            Determine or establish priorities                                                                                 -         -          -         -
1.5.6.4            Adjust daily maintenance plans to
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   meet operational commitments
1.5.6.5            Direct aircraft structural
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   maintenance activities
1.5.6.6            Direct specialized repair activities                                                                              -         -          -         -
1.5.7              Manage resources
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   TR: AFMAN 23-110
1.5.8              Determine authorized materials
                   with:
                   TR: TO 1-1-8, 1-1-691,
                   Applicable TOs
1.5.8.1            Technical Orders                                                                                                  -         B          -         -
1.5.8.2            Qualified Products Listings (QPLs)/
                                                                      *                                                              -         A          -         -
                   Qualified Products Database (QPD)
1.5.8.3            Mil Specs                                          *                                                              -         A          -         -
1.5.8.4            Maintain equipment accountability                                                                                 -         -          -         -
1.5.9              Supplies
                   TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110,
                      T.O. 00-35D-54
1.5.9.1            Issue                                                                                                             -         -          -         -
1.5.9.2            Establish levels                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
1.5.9.3            Maintain levels                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
1.5.9.4            Shelf Life Program                                                                                                A         B          -         -
1.5.9.5            Evaluate maintenance or use of
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   equipment, supplies, or workspace
1.5.9.6            Deficiency Reporting Program                                                                                      -         -          -         -
1.5.9.7            Initiate deficiency reports                                                                                       -         -          -         -
1.5.9.8            Bench check and repair policy                                                                                     -         -          -         -


                                                                    25

                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                          2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                   Notes)
                                                                                                                                     A       B          C
                                                            A         B        A         B         C          D           E        3-Skill 5-Skill 7-Skill Level
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                       Level Level
                                                          5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                              Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
1.6                TOOLS and EQUIPMENT
                   TR: TOs 1-1A-8, 1-1-691, and
                   applicable -32, -33, -34 series TOs,
                   and equipment manuals
1.6.1              Composite Tool Kits (CTKs)
1.6.1.1            Inventory                                *                                                                       2b         -          -         -
1.6.1.2            Manage                                             *                                                              -         -          -         -
1.6.1.3            Tool Accountability System
                   TR: AFI 21-101
1.6.1.3.1          Lost tool reporting                                                                                               A         -          -         -
1.6.1.3.2          Conduct lost tool investigation                                                                                   -         -          -         -
1.6.2              Use hand tools
                                                            *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
                   TR: TO 32-1-101
1.6.3              Maintain tools                           *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   TR: TO 32-1-101
1.6.4              Use shop equipment
1.6.4.1            Arbor press                                                                                                      2b         a          -         -
1.6.4.2            Band saw                                 *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.4.3            Weld band saw blades                                                                                              -         -          -         -
1.6.4.4            Brakes
1.6.4.4.1          Box and pan                              *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.4.4.2          Cornice                                  *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.4.4.3          Power                                                                                                             -         -          -         -
1.6.4.4.4          Press                                                                                                             -         -          -         -
1.6.4.4.5          Bar folding machine                                                                                              2b         b
1.6.4.5            Dimpling machine                                                                                                  -         a          -         -
1.6.4.6            Drill press                              *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.4.7            Grinder (pedestal)                       *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.4.8            Optical micrometer                                                                                                -         -          -         -
1.6.4.9            Rotary (turret) punch                                                                                            2b         a          -         -
1.6.4.10           Shears
1.6.4.10.1         Foot                                     *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.4.10.2         Power                                                                                                            2b         b          -         -
1.6.4.10.3         Scroll                                                                                                            a         a          -         -
1.6.4.10.4         Throatless                               *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.4.11           Shrinking and stretching machine         *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.4.12           Slip roll former                         *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.4.13           Stationary sander (belt)                 *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.5              Maintain shop equipment                  *                                                                        -         b          -         -
1.6.6              Coating application/paint
                   equipment
1.6.6.1            Electrostatic spray unit
1.6.6.1.1          Use                                                                                                               -         a          -         -
1.6.6.1.2          Maintain                                                                                                          -         a          -         -
1.6.6.2            Film gauge, dry                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
1.6.6.3            Film gauge, wet                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
1.6.6.4            High volume low pressure
1.6.6.4.1          Use                                      *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.6.4.2          Maintain                                 *                                                                       2b         -          -         -

                                                                    26

                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                  CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                            2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                     Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                     Notes)
                                                                                                                                       A       B          C
                                                              A         B        A         B         C          D           E        3-Skill 5-Skill 7-Skill Level
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                         Level Level
                                                            5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                                Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
1.6.6.5            Paint booth operational
                                                                                                                                       A         -          -         -
                   fundamentals
1.6.6.6            Use paint shaker (agitator)                                                                                        2b         -          -         -
1.6.6.7            Use pit depth gauge                        *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.6.8            Use media blasting booth                                                                                           2b         b          -         -
1.6.6.9            Use media blasting cabinet                                                                                         2b         b          -         -
1.6.6.10           Pneumatic compactor                                                                                                 -         -          -         -
1.6.6.11           Pressure pots
1.6.6.11.1         Fundamentals                                                                                                       A          B          -         -
1.6.6.11.2         Use                                                                                                                 -         -          -         -
1.6.6.11.3         Maintain                                                                                                            -         -          -         -
1.6.6.12           Recovery still (chemical distillation)                                                                              -         -          -         -
1.6.6.13           Sanding booth                                                                                                       -         -          -         -
1.6.6.14           Spray gun cleaning unit                                                                                            2b         -          -         -
1.6.7              Use composites equipment
1.6.7.1            Heat gun                                                                                                            -         -          -         -
1.6.7.2            Hot air gun                                                                                                         -         -          -         -
1.6.7.3            Hot air module                                                                                                      -         -          -         -
1.6.7.4            Hot bonder
1.6.7.4.1          Program hot bonder                         *                                                                       2b         a          -         -
1.6.7.4.2          Weld thermocouples                                                                                                 2b         a          -         -
1.6.7.5            Oven                                                                                                                -         a          -         -
1.6.7.6            Vacuum system                                                                                                      2b         a          -         -
1.6.7.7            Weight measuring scale                     *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.6.8.             Use tube flaring equipment
1.6.8.1            Double                                                                                                             2b         b          -         -
1.6.8.2            Single                                                                                                             2b         b          -         -
1.6.8.3            Use tube benders
1.6.8.3.1          Computer Numeric Controlled
                                                                                                                                       -         -          -         -
                   (CNC)
1.6.8.3.2          Hand                                                                                                               2b         b          -         -
1.6.8.3.3          Hydraulic                                                                                                           -         a          -         -
1.6.8.4            Production tubing bender                   *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.7                TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
1.7.1              Use electronic and manual
                   Technical Publications for:
                   TR: AFIND 0-2, TOs 00-5-1,
                   00-20, 1-1-8, 1-1-24, 1-1-690,
                   1-1-691, 1-1A-1 series, -3, -4, -6,
                   -23 series and OMMS TOs
1.7.1.1            Maintenance                                *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.7.1.2            Illustrated parts breakdown                *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.7.1.3            TO improvement procedures                                                                                           -         b          -         -
1.7.2              Aircraft Construction
                                                                                                                                       A         B          -         -
                   Familiarization
1.8                INSPECTION
                   TR: TOs 1-1-690, 1-1-691, and -3,
                   -6 and -23 series TOs
1.8.1              Perform inspection for corrosion
                   and structural damage
                                                                      27

                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                              CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                 Notes)
                                                                                                                                   A       B          C
                                                          A         B        A         B         C          D           E        3-Skill 5-Skill 7-Skill Level
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     Level Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                            Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
1.8.1.1            Surface                                *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.8.1.2            Internal structures                    *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.8.2              Classify damage
1.8.2.1            Metal structures                       *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.8.2.2            Composite                              *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.8.2.3            Transparent plastics                                                                                            -         a          -         -
1.8.2.4            Determine repair procedures            *                                                                        -         b          -         -
1.9                DOCUMENTATION
                   TR: TO 00-20-1 & -7, 34-1-2,
                   AFMAN 23-110
1.9.1              Use forms
1.9.1.1            781A series                            *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.9.1.2            781H series                                                                                                     -         a          -         -
1.9.1.3            781K series                            *                                                                       2b         a          -         -
1.9.1.4            AFTO 95                                                                                                         -         a          -         -
1.9.1.5            AFTO 244 series                        *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.9.2              Use Integrated Maintenance Data
                   System (IMDS)
                   TR: AFCSM 21 Series; TO 00-20
                   Series, applicable -6 TO
1.9.2.1            Open discrepancies                     *                                                                        -         -          -         -
1.9.2.2            Close discrepancies                    *                                                                        -         -          -         -
1.9.2.3            Access applicable IMDS menus and
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                   data screens
1.9.3              Use G0 81
                   TR: G0 81/SBSS System Interface
                   User's Guide
1.9.3.1            Open discrepancies                     *                                                                        -         -          -         -
1.9.3.2            Close discrepancies                    *                                                                        -         -          -         -
1.9.3.3            Access applicable menus and data
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                   screens
1.10               CORROSION PREVENTION and
                   CONTROL
                   TR: TOs 1-1-8, 1-1-24, 1-1-690,
                   1-1-691 and applicable -3, -23, or
                   equivalent series
1.10.1             Corrosion principles
1.10.1.1           Theory                                                                                                          B         B          -         -
1.10.1.2           Types                                                                                                           B         B          -         -
1.10.1.3           Factors affecting corrosion                                                                                     B         B          -         -
1.10.2             Corrosion prevention compounds                                                                                  A         B          -         -
1.10.3             Corrosion treatment
1.10.3.1           Apply passivation chemicals                                                                                    2b         b          -         -
1.10.3.2           Remove corrosion (mechanical)          *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.10.3.3           Remove corrosion (chemical)                                                                                     -         -          -         -
1.10.4             Protective coating
1.10.4.1           Score aircraft/support equipment
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                   coating
1.10.4.2           Prepare surface                        *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.10.4.3           Prepare coating                        *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
                                                                  28

                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                               CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                         2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                  Notes)
                                                                                                                                    A       B          C
                                                           A         B        A         B         C          D           E        3-Skill 5-Skill 7-Skill Level
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                      Level Level
                                                         5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                             Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
1.10.4.4           Apply coating                           *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.10.4.5           Apply tapes, boots, and protective
                                                                                                                                    -         b          -         -
                   films
1.10.4.6           Remove tapes, boots, and protective
                                                                                                                                    -         b          -         -
                   films
1.10.5             Correct spray pattern defects           *                                                                        b         b          -         -
1.10.6             Sempens, brushes, and rollers                                                                                    -         A          -         -
1.10.7             Remove coating
1.10.7.1           Mechanical sanding                      *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.10.7.2           Dry abrasive blasting                                                                                           2b         b          -         -
1.10.7.3           Chemicals                                                                                                        -         b          -         -
1.10.8             Aircraft sealing
1.10.8.1           Prepare sealants                        *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.10.8.2           Use sealants                            *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.10.9             Aircraft markings
1.10.9.1           Stencils
1.10.9.1.1         Manufacture                                                                                                      -         a          -         -
1.10.9.1.2         Apply                                                                                                            -         b          -         -
1.10.9.2           Decals
1.10.9.2.1         Manufacture                                                                                                      -         a          -         -
1.10.9.2.2         Apply                                                                                                            -         b          -         -
1.10.9.2.3         Remove                                                                                                           -         b          -         -
1.11               REPAIR, MODIFY, and
                   FABRICATE METAL PARTS and
                   ASSEMBLIES of AIRFRAME
                   STRUCTURES
                   TR: TOs 1-1A-9, 1-1A-1, 1-1A-8,
                   1-1-691, applicable structural
                   repair and corrosion control TOs
1.11.1             Identify metals                         *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.2             Characteristics of metals                                                                                       B          B          -         -
1.11.3             Interpret drawings                      *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.4             Interpret blueprints                                                                                             -         b          -         -
1.11.5             Develop layout for repairs              *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.6             Develop layout for parts                *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.7             Calculate shop mathematics                                                                                      2b         b          -         -
1.11.8             Cut sheet metal                         *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.9             Form metal parts
1.11.9.1           Machine form parts                      *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.9.2           Hand form parts                         *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.10            Advanced repair concepts
1.11.10.1          Design molds                                                                                                     -         b          -         -
1.11.10.2          Form blocks
1.11.10.2.1        Design                                                                                                           -         b          -         -
1.11.10.2.2        Manufacture                                                                                                      -         b          -         -
1.11.11            Install and remove hardware
1.11.11.1          Hole preparation                        *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.2          ASP (Adjustable sustained preload)                                                                               -         -          -         -
1.11.11.3          Blind rivets, pull thru                                                                                         2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.4          Blind rivets, friction lock                                                                                      -         -          -         -
                                                                   29

                                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                Notes)
                                                                                                                                  A       B          C
                                                         A         B        A         B         C          D           E        3-Skill 5-Skill 7-Skill Level
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    Level Level
                                                       5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
1.11.11.5          Blind rivets, mechanical lock         *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.6          Composi-Lok                                                                                                    -         a          -         -
1.11.11.7          Eddie bolt                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
1.11.11.8          Hi-lok (Pin rivet, Threaded)          *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.9          Hi-shear rivets                                                                                                a         b          -         -
1.11.11.10         Hi-tigue                                                                                                       -         b          -         -
1.11.11.11         Huck crimp                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
1.11.11.12         Jo-bolt (Visu-Loc)
1.11.11.12.1       Straight shank                                                                                                2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.12.2       Tapered shank                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
1.11.11.13         Lockbolt
1.11.11.13.1       Pull type                                                                                                      -         b          -         -
1.11.11.13.2       Stump type                                                                                                     -         b          -         -
1.11.11.14         Mechanical lock blind bolt                                                                                    2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.15         Radial-lok                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
1.11.11.16         SLEEVbolt                                                                                                      -         -          -         -
1.11.11.17         Solid rivets                          *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.18         Microshave rivets                     *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.19         Taper lok
1.11.11.19.1       Fundamentals                                                                                                   A         A          -         -
1.11.11.19.2       Remove                                                                                                         -         -          -         -
1.11.11.19.3       Prepare holes                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
1.11.11.19.4       Install                                                                                                        -         -          -         -
1.11.11.20         Turnlock fasteners
1.11.11.20.1       Airlock                                                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.20.2       Camloc                                                                                                        2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.20.3       Dzus                                                                                                           -         -          -         -
1.11.11.20.4       Latches                               *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.20.5       Hinges                                                                                                        2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.21         Nut plates
1.11.11.21.1       Riveted                               *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.11.21.2       Bonded                                                                                                         -         b          -         -
1.11.11.21.3       Coldworked                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
1.11.11.22         Aircraft bolts                                                                                                 -         a          -         -
1.11.11.23         Aircraft nuts                                                                                                  -         a          -         -
1.11.11.23.1       Davis eliptical                                                                                                -         -          -         -
1.11.11.23.2       Press nuts                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
1.11.11.23.3       RivNuts                                                                                                        -         -          -         -
1.11.11.23.4       Tuklok                                                                                                         -         -          -         -
1.11.11.24         Corebolt                                                                                                       -         -          -         -
1.11.12            Remove defective screws                                                                                        -         a          -         -
1.11.13            Perform metal skin repairs
1.11.13.1          Stop drill cracks                     *                                                                        a         a          -         -
1.11.13.2          Cold work holes                                                                                                -         a          -         -
1.11.13.3          Nonflush                              *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.13.4          Flush                                 *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.13.5          Sealed structural                     *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.13.6          Combination substructural member                                                                              2b         b          -         -
1.11.13.7          Reshape/blend damaged areas           *                                                                       2b         b          -         -

                                                                 30

                                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                                CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                          2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                   Notes)
                                                                                                                                     A       B          C
                                                            A         B        A         B         C          D           E        3-Skill 5-Skill 7-Skill Level
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                       Level Level
                                                          5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                              Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
1.11.13.8          Apply aerodynamic smoothing
                                                                                                                                     -         a          -         -
                   compound
1.11.13.9          Roto-Flap/Shot peening                                                                                            -         -          -         -
1.11.14            Trim and fit aircraft skins              *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.15            Trim and fit access panels/doors         *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.11.16            Balance Control Surfaces                                                                                          -         a          -         -
1.12               AIRCRAFT CABLE
                   ASSEMBLIES
                   TR: TOs 1-1A-8, 32A-1,
                   33A1-4-6-1, and applicable
                   structural repair TOs
1.12.1             Select components                                                                                                 a         a          -         -
1.12.2             Fabricate                                                                                                         a         b          -         -
1.12.3             Pull test                                                                                                         a         a          -         -
1.13               AIRCRAFT TUBING
                   ASSEMBLIES
                   TR: TO 42E1-1-1, and applicable
                   aircraft TOs
1.13.1             Select components
1.13.1.1           Material                                 *                                                                       2b         a          -         -
1.13.1.2           Hardware                                 *                                                                       2b         a          -         -
1.13.2             Fabricate aircraft tubing assembly       *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
1.13.3             MS (Military Standard) flareless
                                                                                                                                     A         B          -         -
                   fittings
1.13.4             Install AN (Army Navy) flared
                                                                                                                                    2b         a          -         -
                   fittings
1.13.5             Repair methods
1.13.5.1           Cryofit                                                                                                           -         -          -         -
1.13.5.2           Permalite                                                                                                         a         a          -         -
1.13.5.3           Dynatube                                                                                                          a         a          -         -
1.13.5.4           Permaswage                                                                                                        a         b          -         -
1.13.5.5           Ryngloc                                                                                                           a         a          -         -
1.13.4.6           Wiggins                                                                                                           -         a          -         -
1.13.5.7           Visually inspect and evaluate tubing
                                                            *                                                                        a         a          -         -
                   damage
1.14               REPAIR COMPOSITES
                   TR: TO 1-1-24, 1-1-690 and
                   applicable structural repair TOs
1.14.1             Fundamentals
1.14.1.1           Composite identification                                                                                          A         B          -         -
1.14.1.2           Characteristics of composites                                                                                     A         B          -         -
1.14.1.3           Material storage                                                                                                  A         A          -         -
1.14.2             Lightning and anti static wire
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
                   mesh
1.14.3             Overlap repair                                                                                                    -         b          -         -
1.14.4             Perform bonded fiberglass panel
                                                            *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
                   honeycomb core repair
1.14.5             Perform metal bonded honeycomb
                                                            *                                                                       2b         b          -         -
                   core repair
1.14.6             Potted fastener hole repair                                                                                       -         -          -         -
                                                                    31

                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                              CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                 Notes)
                                                                                                                                   A       B          C
                                                          A         B        A         B         C          D           E        3-Skill 5-Skill 7-Skill Level
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                     Level Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                            Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
1.14.7             Scarf repair                                                                                                   2b         b          -         -
1.14.8             Solid laminate                                                                                                  -         b          -         -
1.14.9             Step repair                                                                                                    2b         b          -         -
1.14.10            Transparent/structural plastics                                                                                 -         b          -         -
1.14.11            Trim and fit replacement
                                                                                                                                   -         b          -         -
                   components
1.14.12            Develop layout for composite
                                                                                                                                  2b         b          -         -
                   repairs
1.14.13            Drilling and countersinking of
                                                                                                                                  2b         b          -         -
                   composites
1.14.14            Integral blade repair (L Angle)                                                                                 -         -          -         -
1.14.15            Integral hat repair                                                                                             -         -          -         -
1.14.16            Material handling                                                                                              2b         b          -         -
1.14.17            Cut materials                                                                                                  2b         b          -         -
1.14.18            Drying                                                                                                         2b         b          -         -
1.14.19            Ply orientation                                                                                                2b         b          -         -
1.14.20            Vacuum bagging                                                                                                 2b         b          -         -
1.14.21            Radar Absorbent Material (RAM)
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                   inspection
1.14.22            RAM application                                                                                                 -         -          -         -
1.14.23            RAM removal                                                                                                     -         -          -         -
1.15               BONDED REPAIR
                   PREPARATION
                   TR: TOs 1-1-690, 1-1A-1
1.15.1             Prepare metal surface
1.15.1.1           Phosphoric Acid Anodize                                                                                         -         -          -         -
1.15.1.2           Sol Gel                                                                                                        2b         -          -         -
1.15.1.3           Grit Blast Saline                                                                                               -         -          -         -
1.15.2             Prepare liquid matrix                                                                                          2b         b          -         -
1.15.3             Use of adhesives, foams, films and
                                                                                                                                  2b         b          -         -
                   tapes
1.15.4             Use Prepreg materials                                                                                          2b         a          -         -
1.16               GENERAL MAINTENANCE/
                   PRODUCTION TEAM TASKS
                   TR: applicable aircraft TO’s
1.16.1             Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                                                                                   A         -          -         -
1.16.2             Technical Order familiarization                                                                                 -         -          -         -
1.16.3             Flightline/safety/precautions/
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                   security
1.16.4             Introduction to aircraft/airframe
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                   familiarization/egress
1.16.5             Inspect/use ground maintenance
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                   stands
1.16.6             Dropped Object Prevention Program
                                                                                                                                   -         -          -         -
                   (DOPP)
1.16.7             Defensive System (DS)
                   familiarization                                                                                                 -         -          -         -
                   (on applicable aircraft)
1.16.8             Statically ground aircraft                                                                                      -         -          -         -

                                                                  32

                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                               SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD
                                                                                                             CFETP 2A7X3, 1 August 2013
                                                       2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                                Notes)
                                                                                                                                  A       B          C
                                                         A         B        A         B         C          D           E        3-Skill 5-Skill 7-Skill Level
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                    Level Level
                                                       5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier    (1)        (2)      (1)        (2)
                                                                           Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
1.16.9             Inspect/operate portable external
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
                   electrical power unit
1.16.10            Apply/disconnect external
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
                   electrical power
1.17               TOW AIRCRAFT
                   TR: applicable aircraft TOs
1.17.1             Tow team member                                                                                                -         -          -         -
1.17.2             Brake operator                                                                                                 -         -          -         -
1.18               PERFORM REFUEL/DEFUEL
                   TEAM MEMBER DUTIES
                   TR: applicable aircraft TOs
1.18.1             Fireguard                                                                                                      -         -          -         -
1.18.2             Panel operator                                                                                                 -         -          -         -
1.18.3             Open and close engine cowling                                                                                  -         -          -         -
1.18.4             Remove/install aircraft
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
                   maintenance access panels
1.18.5             Use aircraft interphone system                                                                                 -         -          -         -
1.18.6             Perform aircraft marshaling
                                                                                                                                  -         -          -         -
                   procedures




                                                                 33

                                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                   2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                       AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN


                                                                                                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                    Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                    Provided (See Note)

1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL                                                                                     A         B              C
 REFERENCES                                                                                                         3 Skill   5 Skill     7 Skill Level
                                                                                                                    Level     Level
                                                                                                                     (1)       (1)      (1)        (2)
                                                                                                                     Crse      CDC      Crse       CDC

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 3: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 4: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDC’s.
NOTE 5: All items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVELS only and require no certification on this STS.

AA.1.         MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
AA.1.1.       Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
             TR: AFI 21-101 and Repair Enterprise 21 Fact Sheet                                                                                     A
              (https://acc.dau.mil/CommunityBrowser.aspx?id=32781
AA.1.2.       Maintenance Concept
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.1.3.       Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54.
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.1.4.       Operating Instructions (OI)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.1.5.       Support Agreements (SA)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 25-201
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.1.6.       Modification and Configuration Management
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.1.7.       Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, AFCSM 21-556 volume 2, and TO 00-20-2
                                                                                                                                                    B
AA.1.8.       Maintenance Performance Indicator Metrics and Health of the Fleet
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
                                                                                                                                                    B
AA.1.9.       Personnel Utilization
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.1.10.      Maintenance Repair Priorities
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.1.11.      Minimum Essential System Listing (MESL)
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-103
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.1.12.      Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), and AEF Reporting Tool (ART)
             TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-244 and https://aefcenter.afpc.randolph.af.mil/
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.1.13.      Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
             TR: AFI 21-101 and T.O. 00-20-1
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.1.14.      Maintenance Scheduling Effectiveness
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                    A

AA.2.         MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
AA.2.1.      Wing Commander (WG/CC)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.2.2.      Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.2.3.      Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
             TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.2.4.      Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
AA.2.5.      MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
             TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                              Attachment 3
                                                                    34
                                 2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                    AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
AA.2.6.    Squadron Commander (SQ/CC) Responsibilities
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.2.7.    Operations Officer and Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT) Responsibilities
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.2.8.    Flight Commander/Flight Chief
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.2.9.    AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.2.10.   Section NCOIC
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.2.11.   Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.2.12.   Expediter
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     B
AA.3.      FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.3.1.    Maintenance Operations
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.3.2.    Maintenance Training Section (MTS)
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                     A
AA.3.3.    Programs and Resources Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.3.4.    Quality Assurance (QA)
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.4.      FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
           (AMXS/HMXS) TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.4.1.    Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.4.2.    Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.4.3.    Aircraft Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.4.4.    Specialist Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.4.5.    Weapons Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.4.6.    Plans, Scheduling and Documentation Section (PS&D)
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.4.7.    Support Section
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.5.      FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
AA.5.1.    Accessories Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.5.2.    Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.5.3.    Armament Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.5.4.    Avionics Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.5.5.    Fabrication Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.5.6.    Maintenance Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.5.7.    Munitions Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-201
                                                                                                     A
AA.5.8.    Propulsion Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.5.9.    Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                     A
AA.6.      AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND RESPONSIBILITIES

                                                                                          Attachment 3
                                                                 35
                                     2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                        AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
AA.6.1.       Air Logistics Centers (ALC)
              TR: AFMCMD (Mission Directives) 406, 407 and 410.
               Located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm ,
               OO-ALC Brochure located at: http://www.hill.af.mil/main/index.html ,
                                                                                                                   A
               WR-ALC: http://www.robins.af.mil/units/402mw.asp and
               OC-ALC: http://www.tinker.af.mil/units/
AA.6.2.       Air Force Flight Test Center/Air Armament Center
              TR: AFMCMD 404 located at https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm
               and Flight Test Center Fact Sheet locate at:
                                                                                                                   A
              http://www.edwards.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet_print.asp?fsID=6573&page=1
AA.6.3.       Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center (AMARC)
              TR: AFMCMD 415 located at: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/afmc/md.htm and                     A
              http://www.dm.af.mil/units/amarc.asp
AA.7.         MAINTENANCE TRAINING
AA.7.1        Types of Training
             TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
                                                                                                                   A
AA.7.2.       Training Documentation
             TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AFI 36-2201
                                                                                                                   A
AA.7.3.       Special Certification Rosters
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                   A
AA.7.4.       Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
             TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AFPD 10-9.
                                                                                                                   A
AA.7.5.       Training Forecast / Request
             TR: AFI 36-2232 and AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                   A
AA.7.6.       Training Development Process
             TR: AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101, and AETCI 36-2601
                                                                                                                   A
AA.8.         PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
AA.8.1.       Capability Based Manpower Standard and Logistics Composite Model (LCOM)
                                                                                                                   A
               TR: AFMAN 38-208 Volume 3, AFI 38-201, AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.8.2.       Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFI 38-201, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFI 36-2110
AA.9.        MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
AA.9.1.      Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                   A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 (vol. 1) and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.9.2.      Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                   A
             TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
AA.9.3.      Consumables Management
                                                                                                                   A
             TR: AFI 21-101, AFTTP 3-21.1 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.4.       Equipment Items
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFMAN 23-220
AA.9.5.      Special Purpose Recoverable Authorized Maintenance (SPRAM) Assets
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFI 21-103
AA.9.6.      Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight Programming
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.7.      Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFMAN 23-110 and AFI 21-101
AA.9.8.      Supply Points
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
AA.9.9.      Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.10.      Repair Cycle Assets / Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
AA.9.11.      Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.12.      Maintenance Repair / Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFI 21-101
AA.9.13.      Classified Assets
                                                                                                                   A
              TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1


                                                                                                        Attachment 3
                                                                       36
                                   2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                      AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
AA.9.14.     Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                            A
             TR: AFI 90-821, AFI 32-7086 and AFI 21-101
AA.9.15.      Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
             TR: AFI 23-110 and AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            B
AA.10.       TECHNICAL ORDER POLICY
             TR: TO 00-5-1, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-303
AA.10.1.     Use of Technical Orders (TO), TO Supplements and Publications
             TR: AFI 21-101, 21-303 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                            A
AA.10.2.     Technical Order Change Process
             TR: AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                            A
AA.10.3.     Technical Order Waivers
             TR: AFI 21-303 and AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.       MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
AA.11.1.    Cannibalization Program
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.2.    Restricted Maintenance Areas
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.3.    Red Ball Maintenance
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.4.    Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.5.   Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP) Purpose and Inspection Types
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                            B
AA.11.6.    Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
            TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.7.   Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
           TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.8.   Tool Management
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.9.    Tool Accountability
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.9.1.  Marking and Tool Identification
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.9.2.  Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.9.3.  Lost Item/Tool Procedures
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.10.   Maintenance Recovery Team
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.11.    Aging Aircraft / Equipment Issues
            TR: AFI 21-101, DoD 5010.12-M and DMSMS Guide Book (SD-22)
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.12.   Quality Assurance Evaluators
            TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-21.1
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.13.   Computer Applications
            TR: AF Portal, AF E-Publishing site, AF IT E-Learning site, Advanced Distributed Learning Services
            (ADLS) site, AF Center of Excellence for Knowledge Management (AFKM) site, Defense Travel System                A
            (DTS) training site, Air & Space Expeditionary Force Center site and the AF Center for Electronic
            Distribution of Systems (AFCEDS) site
AA.11.14.   Mobility
            TR: AFTTP 3-21.1, AFI 10-403, AFI 21-101, and the AFMAN 10-100 (Airman’s Manual)
                                                                                                                            A
AA.11.15.   Crashed Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program
            TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                            A




                                                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                                                   37
