DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                          CFETP 4N1X1/B/C/D
Headquarters US Air Force                                                  Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-5000                                                   7 April 2014


                                       AFSCs 4N1X1/B/C/D

                               SURGICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY




                     CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN



ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.




                                                1
                                          1
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                        SURGICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY
                                AFSC 4N1X1

                                    Table of Contents
PART I                                                              1
Preface                                                             1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                       3
Section A - General Information                                     7
  1. Purpose of the CFETP                                           7
  2. Use of the CFETP                                               8
  3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP                         8

Section B - Career Progression and Information                      9
  1. Specialty Description                                          9
         1.1. Medical Service Manager (4N000)                       9
         1.2. Surgical Service                                      9
         1.3. Specialty Qualifications                              11
  2. Skill and Career Progression                                   12
         2.1. Career Field Path                                     12
         2.2. Apprentice (3) Level                                  12
         2.3. Journeyman (5) Level                                  12
         2.4. Craftsman (7) Level                                   13
         2.5. Superintendent (9) Level                              13
         2.6. Air Force Career Field Manager                        13

  3. Training Decisions                                             13

  4. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)                      14
        4.1. Enrollment                                             14
        4.2. Earning a CCAF Associate’s Degree                      14
        4.3. Other CCAF Programs                                    16

  5. Career Field Path                                              17
         5.1. Enlisted Career Pyramid                               17
         5.2. Enlisted Force Development                            17
         5.3. Enlisted Career Path                                  18
         5.4. Surgical Service Specialty (4N1X1) Career Path        19
         5.5. Surgical Service Specialty (4N1X1B/C/D) Career Path   20

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements                       21
  1. Purpose                                                        21
  2. Specialty Qualification Requirements                           21
         2.1. Apprentice Level Training                             21
         2.2. Journeyman Level Training                             22



                                           ii
          2.3. Craftsman Level Training                                         23
          2.4. Superintendent Level Training                                    24
          2.5. Readiness Skills Verification Training                           24

 Section D - Resource Constraints                                               25
   1. Purpose                                                                   25
   2. Specific Constraints                                                      25
          2.1. Apprentice Level Training                                        25
          2.2. Journeyman Level Training                                        25
          2.3. Lateral Training                                                 25
          2.4. Craftsman Level Training                                         25

 Section E - Transitional Training Guide                                        25

PART II                                                                         26
  Section A - Specialty Training Standard                                       26
         Attachment 1: Identification and Qualitative Requirements              28
         Attachment 2: 4N1X1 STS                                                30
         Attachment 3: Clinic Personnel STS                                     38
         Attachment 4: 4N1X1 STS Training Reference (TR) Source Summary         39
         Attachment 5: Urology (4N1X1B) STS                                     42
         Attachment 6: 4N1X1B STS Training Reference (TR) Source Summary        44
         Attachment 7: Orthopedics (4N1X1C) STS                                 45
         Attachment 8: 4N1X1C STS Training Reference (TR) Source Summary        48
         Attachment 9: Otolaryngology (4N1X1D) STS                              49
         Attachment 10: 4N1X1D STS Training Reference (TR) Source Summary       51

 Section B - Course Objective List                                              52

 Section C - Support Material                                                   52

 Section D - Training Course Index                                              54
   1. Purpose                                                                   54
   2. Air Force In-Residence Courses                                            54
   3. Air Force Institute of Advanced Distance Learning (AFIADL) Courses        55
   4. Exportable Courses                                                        55
   5. Courses Under Development/Revision                                        55

 Section E – MAJCOM-Unique Requirements                                         55
   1. Purpose                                                                   55
   2. Additional Apprentice (3-skill level) Training Requirements               55
           2.1. Air Force Reserve Requirements                                  55
           2.2. Air National Guard Requirements                                 56
   3. ARC Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP) (sustainment training)   56

 Section F - Documentation of Training (Medical Specific)                       56



                                              iii
     Part 1: Air Force Training Record                56
     1. Purpose                                       56
     2. AFTR components managed by the supervisor     56
             2.1. Master Task List                    56
             2.2. Master Training Plan                56
             2.3. Duty Task List                      57
             2.4. Individual Training Record          57
     Part 2: Work Center Training Binder              58




OPR: AF/SG1E
Certified by: SMSgt Ginger Y. McCracken (4N1X1 CFM)
Supersedes: CFETP 4N1X1, 1 September 2007
Number of Pages: 59



                                        iv
                        SURGICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY
                                AFSC 4N1X1
                    UROLOGY SURGICAL SPECIALTY-SHRED B
                  ORTHOPAEDIC SURGICAL SPECIALTY-SHRED C
                OTOLARYNGOLOGY SURGICAL SPECIALTY-SHRED D
                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I
Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies the legal scope of practice within the Air Force medical Service, lifecycle
education/training requirements, training support resources, and minimum requirements for this
specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all
aspects of career field training. The clear expectation is that surgical service specialty personnel be
utilized to the full extent of their knowledge/task certification.

NOTE: Civilians/contract personnel occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty
position qualification training.

2. Initial skills training requirements were identified during the Surgical Services Specialty Training
Requirements Team (STRT) meeting held 28 January – 1 February 2013 at Fort Sam Houston, TX
and subsequent table-top/teleconference Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) conducted on 6
August 2013. The decision to train specific tasks and knowledge items in the initial skills course is
based on a review of Occupational Survey Report data, Training Requirements Analysis data, and
4N1X1 subject-matter expert (SME) input.

3. The CFETP consists of two parts. Formal course developers and field supervisors use both parts
of the plan to manage, plan and control training within the career field.

3.1. Part I contains five sections that provide information necessary for overall management of
the specialty.

3.1.1. Section A, General Information explains how everyone will use the plan.

3.1.2. Section B, Career Field Progression and Information identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path.

3.1.3. Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).

3.1.4. Section D, Resource Constraints lists deficiencies in resources needed to accomplish the
training mission. Some examples are funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities.

3.1.5. Section E, Transitional Training Guide: N/A




                                               1
3.2. Part II contains six sections. At the unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to
identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3.2.1. Section A, Specialty Training Standard (STS) includes duties, tasks, technical
references to support training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted
training, wartime course, core task, and correspondence course requirements.

3.2.2. Section B, Course Objective List identifies the training standards supervisors will use to
determine if airmen satisfy training requirements.

3.2.3. Section C, Support Materials identifies available support materials; an example is a
qualification training package (QTP), which may be developed to support proficiency training.
These packages are available on the official Air Force Publications Electronic Master Catalog
of Training Documents along with the CFETP (www.e-publishing.af.mil).

3.2.4. Section D, Training Course Index is a tool that supervisors can use to determine the
resources available to support training (both mandatory and optional courses).

3.2.5. Section E, MAJCOM-Unique Requirements identifies requirements supervisors
can use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs.

3.2.6. Section F, Documentation and Training provides guidance on documentation of
training (medical specific) and enlisted training record.

NOTE: Reference the most current Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD)
for specialty descriptions.

4. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate points in their careers. This plan will enable us
to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use
Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.




                                                 2
Abbreviations/Terms Explained

Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one or
more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The Air Force focal point for the designated career
field within a functional community. Serves as the primary advocate for the career field,
addressing issues and coordinating functional concerns across various staffs. Responsible for the
career fields policy and guidance.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list which describes
particular job type or duty position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications.
The tasks on AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Air Reserve Components (ARC). United States Air Force Reserve (USAFR) and Air National
Guard (ANG) components and their members.

Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require
common qualifications.

Career Development Courses (CDC). Non-resident, student instruction materials (self-study
correspondence course) designed to provide airmen with the fundamental knowledge of their
AFS.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). CFETP is a comprehensive core training
document that identifies: legal scope of practice within the Air Force Medical Service (AFMS);
life-cycle education and training requirements; training support resources, and minimum core task
requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear path and instill a sense of
industry in career field training.

Certification. A formal indication of an individual's ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official. A person whom the commander assigns to determine an individual's
ability to perform a task to required standards. In AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program the
term also refers to the trainer as well as the person who signs off on the training record in the
certifier block.

Continuation Training. Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present
or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Items the AFCFM identifies as a minimum qualification requirement for everyone
within an AFS regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill
level or in general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the
applicable CFETP narrative. In accordance with (IAW) AFI 36-2201, core tasks do not have to
be signed off on the STS in the certifier column; however, they may be signed off by the trainer
in the trainer column.

                                                3
Course Objective List (COL). A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course
training standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards
provided to achieve a 3- or 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in
conducting graduate evaluations IAW AFI 36-2201.

Course Training Standard. Training standard that identifies the training members will receive
in a specific course.

Enlisted Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.
Go. The stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to
perform the tasks without supervision. Meeting the task standard. The stage at which the trainee
may be signed off on the task in the STS. AFI 36-2201 equates this stage to the 3c proficiency
code.

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course which provides AFSC entry level training.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel
are taught in a cost-efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job
performance.

Major Command (MAJCOM) Functional Manager (MFM). Senior leaders, designated by
the appropriate functional authority who provides day-to-day management responsibility over
specific functional communities at the MAJCOM or ARC level. While they should maintain an
institutional focus in regards to resource development and distribution, MFMs are responsible for
ensuring their specialties are equipped, developed, and sustained to meet the functional
community’s mission as well as encouraging force development opportunities in order to meet
future needs of the total Air Force mission.

Medical Treatment Facility (MTF). Any Department of Defense (DoD) facility (i.e., area
medical center, regional hospital, clinic, or other medical unit) that provides health care to active
duty members and their dependents, or to retired military members and their dependents. MTFs
are also locations where patient care training is conducted.

Milestones. Milestones identify the projected timeframe the trainee will complete all required
tasks, home station training, deployment/unit type code (UTC) tasks, and each set of CDCs as
required.

No Go. Trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform task without
supervision. Does not meet task standard.

Occupational Survey Report. A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey
of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

                                                 4
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training, conducted to certify
personnel in both upgrade (skill level) award and job qualification (duty position certification)
training. This is a dual channel concept using formal training, CDCs and hands-on training task
performance.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Qualification Training. Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel OJT program occurs both
during and after the upgrade training process to maintain up-to-date qualifications. It is designed
to provide the performance skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for hands-on
performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific position, or on a piece of
equipment. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-date
qualifications. It may be printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.

Position Qualification Training. Training designed to qualify an airman in a specific position
that occurs after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training
courses, or OJT, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade.

Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP). The Readiness portion of your AFSC-specific
sustainment training as defined in AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training.
Designed to ensure all members with a fully qualified AFSC maintain adequate skills to perform
their duties during wartime, humanitarian assistance, homeland security/defense, and disaster
response contingencies. Required training is every 24 months.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Scope of Practice. The extent or range of subject knowledge, task knowledge, and task
performance listed as tasks in the STS that Surgical Service Specialty personnel apply in the
performance of duty at the 3/5/7 skill levels. When the MTF executive management team
determines there is need for enlisted personnel to perform tasks beyond the STS, a waiver will be
requested IAW AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations.

Skills Training. A formal course which results in the award of a skill level.

Skills Verification. Used to initially certify that an individual can demonstrate an adequate level
of skill and proficiency to correctly perform a task.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-
the job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in the award of a skill level or AFSC sub-specialty.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes/lists skills and
                                                5
knowledge that Airmen in a particular AFS needs on the job. It also identifies the training
provided to achieve a 3/5/7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a contract
between the AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for
an AFSC are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed
quantity or quality.
Supplemental Training. Training toward a portion of an AFS without change to the AFSC.
Formal training on new equipment, methods and technology that are not suited for OJT.

Sustainment Training. Regular and recurring training necessary to maintain the skills of a fully
qualified individual to adequately perform the mission and related duties required by his/her job
position in peacetime/wartime.

Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed within an AFS that are performed together, and
require common knowledge, skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification code and
a statement.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian/contract
elements) of the United States Air Force.

Trainer. A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks
through OJT methods. Also, equipment that the trainer uses to teach personnel specified tasks.

Training Capacity. The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider the
availability of equipment, qualified trainers, study reference materials, and so on in determining
a unit's training capability.

Task Analysis. Process of describing job tasks in terms of Job Performance Requirement (JPR)
and the process of analyzing these JPRs to determine training requirements. Formerly named
Training Requirement Analysis.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school,      on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study etc.).

Upgrade Training.       Mandatory training which leads to attainment of higher level of
proficiency/skill.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of MAJCOM AFSC functional
managers, SMEs, and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training
requirements.




                                                6
Section A - General Information

1. Purpose of the CFETP.

1.1. This CFETP provides information necessary for AFCFM, MFMs, commanders, training
managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career
field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in this AFS should
receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. It identifies initial skills,
upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training.

1.2. Initial skills training is the AFS-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the
Air Force, or upon retraining into this specialty, for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this
training is conducted by AETC at the 937th Training Group (937 TRG), Fort Sam Houston, TX.
Initial skills training also refers to the training an individual receives when either entering into an
AFSC sub-specialty (shred) training as a non-prior service trainee or lateral training by a
4N151/71. Upon successful completion of specialty course, all 4N1X1 personnel will become
3-levels.

1.3. Non-prior service students will be upgraded to 5-skill level upon completion of CDCs
4N151A (N) and 4N151B (O), completion of required task training and 12 months’ time in
upgrade training. SrA and SSgt 4N151s retraining into the surgical specialties 4N1X1 B/C/D
will be placed in training status code (TSC) F for 9 months and then upgraded to the 5-skill
level. After award of 5-level, SrA must receive a line number for promotion to SSgt, be entered
into TSC C for 12 months and complete the 4N171 CDC for award of the 7-skill level.

1.4. SSgt and TSgt 4N171 retraining into the surgical specialties 4N1X1 B/C/D will be placed
in TSC F for 9 months and then awarded the 5-skill level. After award of 5-level they will be
entered into TSC G for 6 months for award of the 7-skill level. Lateral retraining into either
shred regardless of rank and skill level will result in a 24-month Specialty Knowledge Test
(SKT) exemption.

1.5. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses (resident and correspondence), and
task qualification requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill levels. Qualification training
is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty
position. This training occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed
to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is
formal specialty training used for selected Airmen. Proficiency training is additional training,
either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or OJT, provided to personnel to
increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

1.6. The CFETP has several purposes:

1.6.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual's career.

1.6.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements and generally describes "scope of
practice" in the Surgical Service Specialty, and recommends training/education throughout each
phase of an individual's career.

                                                  7
1.6.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method employed.

1.6.4. Identifies major resource constraints which impact full implementation of the
desired career field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP.

2.1. The CFETP will be used by the AFCFM, MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.2. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field and
exportable training based on requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of
the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for
obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.3. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the mandatory initial, upgrade, and
proficiency requirements outlined in the CFETP. Identified requirements can be satisfied by
OJT, resident training, non-resident (exportable) training, contract training, or read-ahead
modules. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion
into this plan.

2.4. QTPs are developed by the AFCFM, IAW AFI 36-2201.

2.5. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The lists of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

2.6. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify needs and coordinate on
the career field training requirements. The AETC training manager for this specialty will
initiate an annual review of this document by AETC and MFMs to ensure currency and
accuracy. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.




                                                 8
Section B - Career Progression and Information

1. Specialty Description.

1.1. Medical Service Manager (4N000).

1.1.1. The 4N191, Surgical Service Superintendent, is awarded Career Enlisted Manager
(CEM) 4N000 upon promotion to CMSgt. The Surgical Service Career Field merges with the
Aerospace Medical Service career field at the CMSgt level.

1.2. Surgical Service.

1.2.1. Specialty Summary. Participates in, and manages planning, providing, and evaluating
surgical patient care activities and related training programs. Organizes the medical
environment, performs and directs support activities in patient care situations, including
contingency operations and disasters. Assists professional staff in providing patient care for
surgical patient before, during, and after surgery. Performs scrub and circulating duties in the
operating room (OR). Assists with post-anesthesia recovery of patients. Processes, stores, and
distributes sterile supplies. Participates in planning, implementing, and evaluating management
activities related to OR and Sterile Processing and Distribution (SPD). Performs duties in and
supervises the urology, orthopedic, and otolaryngology surgical specialties. Related DoD
Occupation Subgroup: 130100.
1.2.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

1.2.2.1. Directs, performs, and coordinates administrative functions. In coordination with
executive management team, establishes administrative policies for surgical functions and
provides input into strategic resource planning. Manages the preparation of correspondence,
records, and their maintenance. Determines methods and sources of obtaining data for routine or
special reports. Directs, coordinates, and validates budget requirements. Serves as a consultant
to the MAJCOM Medical Service Manager. Participates or assists in developing and
implementing command programs. Conducts staff assistance and consultant visits. Assists the
executive management team with developing, interpreting, and evaluating instructions,
regulations, policies, and procedures. Oversees development, implementation and evaluation of
medical readiness plans and programs. Oversees and participates in implementation of continual
quality improvement plans and programs.

1.2.2.2. Provides, supervises and manages surgical patient care activities. Performs surgical
tasks. Acts as team leader and member. Transports patients, and related records to and from the
OR and recovery room. Assists nursing staff with preoperative patient preparation activities.
Helps with routing medical materiel management activities. Accomplishes routine safety checks
and operator preventive maintenance on fixed and moveable medical equipment and fixtures.
Performs routine and specialized housekeeping activities. Prepares OR for surgery by setting up
and opening sterile supplies and instruments. Assists anesthesia personnel with patient
positioning and anesthesia administration. Applies principles of asepsis, infection control, and
medical ethics. Assists with terminal cleanup of OR and prepares for follow-up procedures.
Receives, decontaminates, and cleans soiled patient care items. Assembles, wraps, and sterilizes
instrument sets, supplies, and linen packs. Stores, maintains, and distributes sterile patient care
items. Assists the circulating nurse with preparing records, reports, and requests. Prepares
specimens for transport to the laboratory. Performs scrub duties in OR. Scrubs hands and arms
                                                9
and dons sterile gown and gloves. Prepares and maintains sterile instruments, supplies, and
equipment of draped tables and stands. Counts sponges, needles, instruments, and related items
with circulating nurse before, during, and after surgical procedures. Assists the operative team
with applying sterile drapes to the surgical field. Passes instruments, sutures, and other supplies
to the sterile operative team. Anticipates surgeon’s needs, and provides additional assistance as
directed. Cares for surgical specimens on the sterile field. Cleans and prepares instruments and
reusable supplies for terminal sterilization and decontamination. Participates in contingency or
disaster field training, exercises, and deployments.

1.2.2.3. Performs recovery room or basic nursing duties. Assists surgeon and nursing staff with
monitoring and recording vital signs. Administers oxygen, helps arouse patient, and carries out
surgeon’s post-operative orders. Assists with identifying and managing of postoperative
complications.

1.2.2.4. Performs general clinic functions. Schedules and prepares patients and sets up
instruments, supplies, and equipment for specialized procedures in the OR and specialty clinics.
Assists specialty surgeon during surgical and diagnostic procedures. Assembles, operates, and
maintains diagnostic and therapeutic equipment. Orders diagnostic laboratory and radiographic
procedures as directed. Performs administrative activities unique to specific surgical clinics.

1.2.2.5. Provides medical training to agencies and personnel other than medical. Training
includes areas such as aseptic technique and self-aid buddy care. Schedules in-service
training on new procedures, techniques, and equipment. Provides required basic life support
(BLS) training. Conducts or schedules periodic disaster training, fire drills, and evacuation
procedures.

1.2.2.6. Performs urology functions. Operates special urological radiography equipment.
Administers injections, catheterizes patients, performs laboratory tests and procedures,
and administers intravesical medications under supervision of the physician.

1.2.2.7. Performs orthopedic functions. Applies and removes casts and splints as directed by
health care providers. Administers topical anesthetics under the supervision of the physician.
Assembles and applies orthopedic traction devices. Instructs patients in using crutches, canes,
and other orthopedic appliances.

1.2.2.8. Performs otolaryngology functions. Performs minor diagnostic and therapeutic
ear, nose, and throat (ENT) procedures. Administers topical anesthetics under supervision
of the physician. Performs diagnostic hearing evaluations and vestibular function tests.
Makes ear mold impressions for hearing aids.

1.2.2.9. Performs management and training functions within surgical services. Plans and
schedules workloads as well as duty assignments. Establishes work methods and standards.
Evaluates work capability and proficiency of subordinates. Plans and conducts training.
Interprets policies and instructions. Inspects and evaluates activities and procedures to ensure
maintenance of asepsis and proper environmental, equipment, and facility safety conditions.
Analyzes requirements and supervises requisition, storage, maintenance, and issue of
equipment and supplies. Supervises, prepares and maintains reports and records.



                                               10
1.3. Specialty Qualifications

1.3.1. Knowledge. The following knowledge is mandatory for award of AFSC indicated:

1.3.1.1. 4N1X1/X1X. Fundamentals of anatomy and physiology; principles of asepsis and
sterile techniques; preparing and storing surgical sets and packs, surgical instrumentation, and
equipment; OR and anesthesia procedures; pathology as it applies to specimen care and
handling; basic microbiology and infection control principles; basic surgical pharmacology;
sterilizing and disinfecting procedures; surgical and anesthesia complications and their treatment;
MTF and OR environmental hazards and safety procedures; handling and storage of compressed
gases; basic medical material procedures; basic medical administration procedures; legal aspects
of preoperative care and medical ethics; roles and qualifications of surgical team members; and
basic clinical functions.
                                               14
1.3.1.2. 4N1X1B. Anatomy and physiology of the genitourinary system and its disorders,
genitourinary system terminology, and radiology techniques in urological procedures.

1.3.1.3. 4N1X1C. Anatomy and physiology of the musculoskeletal system and its disorders;
musculoskeletal system terminology; common practices, techniques, and principles of fracture
immobilization including plaster and other casting materials; methods and principles of traction
application; and common orthopedic complications and their management.

1.3.1.4. 4N1X1D. Anatomy and physiology of the head and neck; disorders of ENT; medical
terminology related to the ENT specialty; and special audiometry testing.

1.3.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school is required with
courses in general science, biology, chemistry, hygiene, and psychology is desirable.

1.3.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

1.3.3.1. 4N131. Completion of the surgical service resident and clinical course.

1.3.3.2. 4N131B. Completion of the basic urology course.

1.3.3.3. 4N131C. Completion of the basic orthopedic course.

1.3.3.4. 4N131D. Completion of the basic otolaryngology course.

1.3.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

1.3.4.1. 4N151/X. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4N131/X. Also, experience in
functions such as general care and treatment of patients; assisting the operative team and nursing
staff in surgery; preparing patients for surgery; and performing sterile, unsterile, and related
surgical activities.

1.3.4.2. 4N171/X. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4N151/X. Also, experience
in supervising and performing functions such as assisting surgeon and supervisor.

1.3.4.3. 4N191. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4N171/X. Also, experience in
managing functions such as medical/surgical related patient care and administrative activities.
                                               11
1.3.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:

1.3.5.1. For entry into sub-specialties B, C, and D, prior qualification and possession of
AFSC 4N131.

1.3.5.2. For award and retention of AFSCs 4N1X1/X, the following are mandatory as
indicated:

1.3.5.2.1. No record of emotional instability according to the provisions of AFI 48-123,
Medical Examinations and Standards.

1.3.5.2.2. No limitations for continuous standing according to the provisions of AFI
48-123.

1.3.5.3. For award and retention of these AFSCs, must maintain an Air Force Network
License according to AFI 33-115, Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying
Network Professionals.

2. Skill and Career Progression.

2.1.1. Career Field Path. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do his/her part to plan, manage, and
conduct an effective training program IAW AFI 36-2201. The guidance provided in this part of
the CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in his/her
career. The following narrative and the AFSC 4N1X1 career field flow charts identify the
training career path, and defines the training required in an individual's career.

2.2. Apprentice (3) Level. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work
with a trainer to enhance knowledge and skills. He/she will enroll in and complete the
CDCs, and initiate task qualification training in STS core tasks and all STS tasks assigned
for the duty position. Once task certified, a trainee may perform the task unsupervised.

2.3. Journeyman (5) Level. Once upgraded to the 5-skill level, journeymen will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base. Individuals will attend the Airman
Leadership School (ALS) at the appropriate point of their enlistment. Five-skill levels may be
considered for appointment as training certifiers after promotion to SSgt. Also after award of
the 5-skill level, first-term airmen in their CAREERS window, and career airmen, may apply for
lateral retraining into one of the surgical sub-specialties [Urology (4N1X1B), Orthopedics
(4N1X1C), or Otolaryngology (4N1X1D)]. Five-level individuals may be assigned in various
positions in Anesthesia, Surgery, SPD, Supply, surgical specialty clinics, and other areas
relating to Surgical Services. They are also encouraged to start working on their continuing
education toward a CCAF degree in Surgical Services Technology.

2.3.1. EXCEPTION TO POLICY:

2.3.1.1. First-term Airmen 4N151 may apply for lateral retraining prior to their normal
window if they have served a minimum of 24 months of their enlistment for entry into the
4N1X1B, 4N1X1C, and 4N1X1D shreds of their AFSC only.
                                              12
2.3.1.2. If a member is stationed overseas they must have a date eligible for return from
overseas (DEROS) or be willing to extend DEROS out to 12 months after the class
graduation date or member has an indefinite DEROS and will serve 12 months after course
graduation.

2.3.1.3. AFSC shreds are considered proficient in the basic AFSC, and may be used in either
the shred or basic AFSC. Example: An individual’s primary AFSC is 4N151D. Because this
AFSC is authorized to be used within the shred, the individual is considered qualified to work
in either AFSC 4N151 or 4N151D. However, while a 4N151 may temporarily work in a
specialty clinic the individual will not be awarded a shred until all formal course/training
requirements for the award of the shred is completed.

2.3.2. 4N131B/C/D. Upon selection for lateral retraining, the trainee will attend the in-
residence course. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a trainer to
enhance knowledge and skills. The trainer will initiate task qualification training in STS core
tasks and all STS tasks assigned for the duty position. Once task certified, a trainee may
perform the task unsupervised. Five-skill-level journeymen will also enter into continuation
training to broaden their experience base. Those holding the 5-skill level may be assigned in
various positions in their specialty and related areas.

2.4. Craftsman (7) Level. A craftsman can expect to fill positions such as various
Noncommissioned Officer In Charge (NCOIC) staff positions in Surgical Services, SPD,
clinics, and any other requirement specified in the AFECD. Continuation training is available
and should be used based on the individual's particular training needs. Those holding the 7-
skill level should take courses to obtain added knowledge on management of resources and
personnel. To assume the rank of MSgt, individuals must be graduates of the Noncommissioned
Officer Academy (NCOA). Continued academic education is encouraged.

2.5. Superintendent (9) Level. A superintendent can expect to fill various supervisory and
management positions. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower, resources, and
personnel management should be pursued though continuing education. Additional higher
education and completion of courses outside of the career AFSC are also recommended.

2.6. Air Force Career Field Manager (Medical). Per AFI 44-104, the CFM serves as enlisted
consultant to the Air Force Surgeon General for all AFSC-related matters. In addition, enlisted
CFMs have primary responsibilities as defined in AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2101, Classifying
Military Personnel (Officers and Enlisted), and the AFECD, AFI 36-2640, Total Force
Development, and AFI 41-106.

3. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the 4N1X1X career field. The
spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The
strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a
disjointed approach to training. Decisions were made as to the content of the CFETP during the
Surgical Service STRT held 28 January – 1 February 2013 at Fort Sam Houston, TX and the
table-top U&TW conducted on 6 August 2013.

3.1. Initial Skills Training. Initial skills course content (3-skill level) will be revised to provide
training needed to prepare graduates for Surgical Service Specialty positions.

                                                13
3.2. Upgrade Training. The current CDC used for journeyman and craftsman training will be
revised.

3.3. STS Changes. Core tasks and other requirements for 5- and 7-skill levels were
established.

4. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF).

4.1. Enrollment. Enrollment in the CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training
(BMT). Off-duty education is a personal choice that is highly encouraged for all.

4.2. Earning a CCAF Associate’s Degree.

4.2.1. The CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate of Applied Science Degree in
Surgical Services Technology as follows:
4.2.1.1.   The 5-skill level must be held at the time of program completion.

4.2.1.2.   Degree requirements:
                          Subject                                  Maximum Semester Hours
 Technical Education                                                      24
 Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                              6
 Physical Education                                                        4
 General Education                                                        15
 Program Elective (Technical Education; Leadership,                       15
 Management, and Military Studies; or General Education)
 Total Requirements:                                                        64

4.2.1.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours). A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core/Technical Elective subjects/courses. Requests to substitute subjects/courses
must be approved in advance by the Services Branch. Technical education may be obtained as
follows:

                                    Technical Core (12-24 Hours)
                Subject/Courses                                 Maximum Semester Hours
 CCAF Internship                                                       18
 Fundamentals of Sterile Processing & Distribution                      8
 Operating Room Practicum                                              16
 Operating Room Technology                                             16
 Surgical Nursing                                                      12

                                 Technical Electives (0-12 Hours)
                Subjects/Courses                              Maximum Semester Hours
 Computer Science                                                      6
 Emergency Medicine                                                    3
 Enlisted Professional Military Education                             12
 General Biology                                                       4
 General Chemistry                                                     4
                                                14
 General Psychology                                                         3
 Human Anatomy and Physiology                                               8
 Medical Readiness                                                          3
 Medical Terminology                                                        3
 Nursing                                                                    6

4.2.1.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours). Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses. The preferred method of completing
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies is through attendance at an ALS, MAJCOM
NCOA, and/or Air Force Senior NCOA (SNCOA). However, civilian courses that emphasize
fundamentals of managing human or material resources may also be applicable.

4.2.1.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours). This requirement is satisfied by completion of
basic military training.

4.2.1.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours). This requirement is satisfied by application of
courses accepted in transfer or by testing credit. The following is a specific breakdown of
requirements:

                  Subjects/Courses                                 Maximum Semester Hours
  Oral Communication (Speech)
  Written Communication (English composition)                        3
  Mathematics: Intermediate algebra or a college level               3     3
  mathematics course is required. If an acceptable
  mathematics course is applied as a Technical or Program
  Elective, a natural science course meeting General
  Education Requirement (GER) application criteria may be
  applied as a GER.
  Social Science: Anthropology, archaeology,                               3
  economics, geography, government, history, political
  science, psychology, sociology
  Humanities: Fine arts (history, criticism, and                           3
  appreciation), foreign language, literature, philosophy,
  religion

4.2.1.2.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours). Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Maximum 9 semester hours of CCAF
degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied.

4.2.6. Surgical Technologist Certification. There are three certification bodies for Surgical
Technologist.

4.2.6.1. For certification as a Certified Surgical Technician, Surgical Service Apprentice
course graduates who graduated after 1 January 2003, (after award of the 5-skill level), should
contact the National Center for Competency (NCCT) Testing, via their website at
https://www.ncctinc.com. Surgical Service Apprentice course graduates who graduated
between 1 January 1988 and 1 January 2003 (after award of the 5-skill level) should contact
                                               15
either the NCCT or the Liaison Council on Certification, Association of Surgical
Technologists Incorporation via their website at https://www.nbstsa.org. These graduates are
eligible for both NCCT and NBSTSA certification exam.

4.2.6.2. For certification in SPD, degree graduates with 6 months of experience in SPD
should contact the Certification Board for Sterile Processing and Distribution Incorporation
via their website at http://www.sterileprocessing.org.
4.2.6.3. Orthopedic technicians can apply for certification through the National Board for
Certification of Orthopedic Technologist (NBCOT) certification programs.

4.2.6.4. To be eligible, you must have attended an orthopedic technologist school/program and
have 6 months of full-time experience in orthopedics, or you must have at least 2 years of full-
time work experience in orthopedics.

4.2.6.5. After passing the examination, individuals become a certified orthopedic technologist
(OTC). OTCs can apply for certification as an Orthopedic Technologist-Surgery Certified (OT-
SC) provided they have at least 1 year of experience in the surgical setting and pass the
certification examination. For information on testing, contact the NBCOT via their website at
http://www.nbcot.net.

4.2.6.6. Urology technicians can apply for certification as Certified Urology Associate (CUA)
through the Society of Urologic nurses and Associates (SUNA).

4.2.6.7. To apply you must have at least 3 years OJT under the supervision of a practicing
urologist.

4.2.6.8. Individuals successfully completing the certification process may use their credentials
for a period of 3 years. For more information, contact the Society of Urologic
Nurse and Associates via their website at http://www.suna.org.
4.3. Other CCAF Programs. In addition to the Associates degree program, CCAF offers
various certificates and degree options. These options can be found at the following website:
http://www.au.af.mil/au/barnes/ccaf/.




                                                16
  5. Career Field Path.

  5.1. Enlisted Career Pyramid.




5.2. Enlisted Force Development.




                                   17
 5.3.
 5.3  Enlisted Career
 5.3Enlisted
      Enlisted Career
               CareerPath.
                       Path
                      Path
                                                                                         GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training Requirements                                 Rank           Average       Earliest   High Year Of Tenure
                                                                                  Promotion     Promotion         (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School
(3-Skill Level)                                                     Amn            6 months
                                                                    A1C           10 months

Upgrade To Journeyman
(5-Skill Level)
- Minimum 12 months in Upgrade Training (UGT)
   - 9 months for retrainees                                        Amn
- Complete 4E051 CDCs                                               A1C             3 years          28 months                 8 Years
- Trained/Certified on all core tasks.                              SrA
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time-in-service or be a SSgt
  selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-on (Active
Duty Only)
Trainer/Certifier Requirements                                                                          Trainer
                                                                  - Qualified and certified to perform task to be trained.
                                                                  - Must attend AF Training Course and be appointed by Commander
                                                                  - Recommended by supervisor
                                                                                                       Certifier
                                                                  - Possess at least the grade of SSgt with 5 skill level or civilian
                                                                    equivalent
                                                                  - Attend AF Training Course and appointed by Commander
                                                                  - Be a person other than the trainer
                                                                  - Be certified on the tasks to be evaluated
Upgrade To Craftsman
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt
- 12 months UGT
   - 6 months for retrainees                                        SSgt            4 years            3 years                15 Years
- Complete all core and duty position tasks
- Complete In Resident Operational Entomology
- Complete Center for Diseases Control and Prevention
  Epidemiology CBT
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee                                   TSgt          10.8 years           5 years                20 Years
- Resident graduationis a prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (Active
  Duty Only)                                                        MSgt          16.8 years           8 years                24 Years

USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a MSgt or SMSgt selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for CMSgt sew-on           SMSgt          19.8 years          11 years                26 Years
(Active Duty Only). A percentage of top nonselects (for
promotion to E-8) MSgts attend SNCOA each year
Upgrade to Superintendent
 (9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt
Upon Selection to CMSgt
- Chief Leadership Course
- CMSgt Orientation (if available)                                 CMSgt          25.3 years          14 years                30 Years
- Intermediate Executive Skills Course
- Other Leadership/Management Courses (AFSO21 Executive
  Leadership Seminar, Keystone, etc.)




                                                                     18
 5.4.
5.4   Surgical
    Surgical   Service
             Service   Specialty
                     Specialty    (4N1X1)
                               (4N1X1)    Career
                                       Career    Path.
                                              Path



                                               Basic Training
                                                    AB


                                          L8AQJ4N131 01AA PH I
                                          L5ABO4N131 02AA PH II


                         Surgical
                        Shred out             4N131 Apprentice
                       4N131 B/C/D                AB-A1C



                                                  CDC/ OJT




                                             4N151 Journeyman       ALS @ SRA
                                                SrA - SSgt




                                                  4N171 CDCs
                                     NO               and
                                                  OJT Program

                      YES


                                              4N171 Craftsman        NCOA @ TSgt
                                                TSgt - MSgt
                          1

                                            4N191 Superintendent    SNCOA @ SMSGT
                                                   SMSgt



                                            4N000 Medical Service
                                                  Manager
                                                  CMSgt




 NOTE: Selected Master
                  NOTE:Sergeants may
                          Selected   attend
                                   Master   SNCOA.
                                          Sergeants may attend SNCOA.




                                             19
  5.5.
5.5    Surgical
    Surgical    Service
             Service    Specialty
                     Specialty    (4N131B/C/D)
                               (4N1X1B/C/D)    Career
                                            Career    Path.
                                                   Path



                                               1


                                         Surgical Shred
                                     MAJCOM Requirement                          4N131
                                                                   NO
                                         Lateral Train                           4N151
                                     Accepted 4N1X1 B/C/D




                                               YES
                         YES                                             YES

        L9ALN4N131B00AA Urology   L8ALJ4N131C00AA Orthopedic       L8ALJ4N131D00AA Otolaryngology
             PDS Code 3FO                PDS Code SZ3                      PDS Code ITU


                                          4N1X1 B/C/D

                                   4N151 CDCs if not a lateral
                                  retrainee Proficiency Training


                                    4N151 B/C/D Journeyman               ALS @ SRA


                                        4N171 CDCs and
                                         OJT Program



                                              SSgt


                                   TSgt –MSgt Shreds test
                                   against slicks for SMSgt             NCOA @ TSgt



                                     4N191 Superintendent
                                                                        SNCOA @ SMSgt
                                            SMSgt


                                     4N000 Medical Service
                                           Manager
                                           CMSgt




                                                   20
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

1.1. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of
tasks and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification
requirements for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory
requirements for entry, award and retention of each skill level. The specific task and
knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS in Part II, Sections A and B of this
CFETP.

2. Specialty Qualification Requirements.

2.1. Apprentice Level Training

2.1.1. Knowledge. The following knowledge is mandatory for award of 4N131: Fundamentals
of anatomy and physiology; principles of asepsis and sterile techniques; preparing and storing
surgical sets and packs, surgical instrumentation, and equipment; OR and anesthesia procedures;
pathology as it applies to specimen care and handling; basic microbiology and infection control
principles; basic surgical pharmacology; sterilizing and disinfecting procedures; surgical and
anesthesia complications and his/her treatment; MTF and OR environmental hazards and safety
procedures; handling and storage of compressed gases; basic medical materiel procedures; basic
medical administration procedures; legal aspects of perioperative care and medical ethics; roles
and qualifications of surgical team members; and basic clinical functions.

2.1.2. Education. Completion of high school or general educational development equivalency
is mandatory for entry into this AFSC. Courses in general science, biology, psychology, and
chemistry are desirable.

2.1.3. Training. Completion of the basic surgical service course is mandatory for award of the
apprentice skill level.

2.1.4. Training Sources and Resources.

2.1.4.1. Completion of the Surgical Service Apprentice Phase I Course at Medical Education
and Training Campus (METC), Fort Sam Houston, TX and Surgical Service Apprentice Phase II
at a designated site satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified in the specialty
qualification section (above) for award of the 3-skill level. Reference Section D – Training
Course Index for course numbers.

2.1.4.2. QTPs are Air Force publications and are mandatory for use during upgrade/qualification
training when available for a duty position, program, or piece of equipment. These packages are
identified and made available on the official Air Force Publications Electronic Master Catalog
of Training Documents along with the CFETP. Procedures for requesting QTP development
are also contained on the Air Force E-publication website. A list of all training courses to
support education and training, including QTPs, is in Part II, Sections C and D, of this CFETP.




                                              21
2.1.5. Implementation. After 3-level course completion, job qualification training starts when an
individual is assigned to their first duty position. Thereafter, it is initiated anytime an individual is
assigned duties they are not qualified to perform. QTPs will be used concurrently to obtain
necessary duty position qualifications.

2.2. Journeyman Level Training.

2.2.1. Specialty Qualification. All 4N131/B/C/D qualifications apply to the 4N151/B/C/D
respective requirements.

2.2.1.1. Individuals must hold AFSC 4N1X1 for qualification for lateral training to the
4N1X1B/C/D sub-specialties.

2.2.1.2. Other qualification information is located in the official specialty description in the
AFECD.

2.2.2. Knowledge.

2.2.2.1. For the basic AFSC, and all shreds, knowledge of the following is mandatory:
Fundamentals of anatomy and physiology; principles of asepsis and sterile techniques; preparing
and storing surgical sets and packs, surgical instrumentation, and equipment; OR and anesthesia
procedures; pathology as it applies to specimen care and handling; basic microbiology and
infection control principles; basic surgical pharmacology; sterilizing and disinfecting procedures;
surgical and anesthesia complications and their treatment; MTF and OR environmental hazards
and safety procedures; handling and storage of compressed gases; basic medical materiel
procedures; basic medical administration procedures; legal aspects of perioperative care and
medical ethics; roles and qualifications of surgical team members; basic clinical functions;
military hygiene and sanitation; risk management, disaster preparedness, and chemical warfare.

2.2.2.2. In addition to subparagraph 2.2.2.1., for the 4N151B shred, knowledge of the following
is mandatory: anatomy and physiology of the genitourinary system and its disorders,
genitourinary system terminology, and radiology techniques in urological procedures. Must also
maintain a working knowledge of surgical instrumentation/procedure set-up for urological
procedures.

2.2.2.3. In addition to subparagraph 2.2.2.1., for the 4N151C shred, knowledge of the following is
mandatory: anatomy and physiology of the musculoskeletal system and its disorders;
musculoskeletal system terminology; common practices, techniques; and principles of fracture
immobilization including plaster and other casting materials; methods and principles of traction
application; and common orthopedic complications and their management. Must also maintain a
working knowledge of surgical instrumentation procedure set-up for orthopedic procedures.

2.2.2.4. In addition to subparagraph 2.2.2.1., for the 4N151D shred, knowledge of the following
is mandatory: anatomy and physiology of the head and neck; disorders of ENT; medical
terminology related to the ENT specialty; and special audiometry testing. Must also maintain a
working knowledge of surgical instrumentation procedures set-up for otolaryngology procedures.

2.2.3. Education. To assume the grade of SSgt individuals must be graduates of the ALS.


                                                 22
2.2.4. Training. Completion of the following requirements is mandatory for the award of the 5-
skill level AFSC: (1) completion of CDCs 4N151A/N and 4N151B/O; (2) certification in all
STS core tasks; (3) completion of any QTPs for the assigned duty position; (4) completed at least
12 months OJT.

2.2.4.1. Upon selection for lateral training, the trainee will attend the respective in-residence
specialty course.

2.2.4.1.1. 4N151B/C/D. Upgrade training consists of completing: (1) all STS core tasks; (2)
any QTPs assigned for the duty position; and (3) a minimum of 9 months OJT following in-
residence course. (TSC F).

2.2.4.2. Failure to meet or maintain training qualifications will be managed IAW AFI 36-2201.

2.2.5. Experience. Possess AFSC 4N131B/C/D before entry into upgrade training.

2.2.6. Training Sources and Resources.

2.2.6.1. Completion of CDC courses 4N151A/N and 4N151B/O satisfies the knowledge
requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 5-skill level.
The STS identifies all the core tasks required for qualification. Upgrade and qualification
training are provided by qualified trainers using available QTPs. Requests for trainer/certifier
qualification training must be coordinated through the unit training manager.

2.2.6.2. Completion of urology, orthopedics, or otolaryngology courses satisfies the knowledge
and training requirements specified in the specialty qualification section (above) for award of the
sub-specialty AFSC shred.

2.2.7. Implementation. Upgrade training is initiated after award of the 3-skill level. Additional
qualification training is initiated anytime trainees are assigned duties they are not qualified to
perform. CDCs 4N151A/N and 4N151B/O, STS core tasks, and applicable QTPs must be
completed to be awarded the 5-skill level.

2.3. Craftsman Level Training.

2.3.1. Specialty Qualification. All 4N151/B/C/D qualifications apply to the 4N171/B/C/D
respective requirements.

2.3.2. Knowledge. All 4N151/B/C/D qualifications apply to the 4N171/B/C/D respective
requirements.
2.3.3. Education. To assume the rank of MSgt individuals must be graduates of the NCOA.

2.3.4. Training. Completion of the following requirements is mandatory for the award of the 7-
skill level AFSC: (1) certification in all STS core tasks; (2) completion of applicable core task
QTPs; (3) completion of 7- level CDCs when available (if member laterally trained and previously
held 4N171, 7-level CDCs are NOT required); (4) 12-months’ time in upgrade training (6 months
for individuals who previously held 7-skill level) and (5) the minimum rank of SSgt.

2.3.5. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 4N151/B/C/D.

                                                23
2.3.6. Other. N/A

2.3.7. Training Sources and Resources. The STS identifies all the core tasks required for
qualification. Upgrade and qualification training are provided by qualified trainers utilizing
available QTPs. In addition to the Air Force E-publication website, they can also be found on the
AFMS Knowledge Exchange (https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx8/SurgicalServiceCFM/Pages/home.aspx).

2.3.8. Implementation. Upgrade training is initiated when an individual possesses the 5-skill
level and holds the rank of SSgt-select or higher. Additional qualification training is initiated
anytime trainees are assigned duties they are not qualified to perform. All STS core tasks,
specifically identified 7-level tasks in the STS, applicable QTPs, and the 7-level CDCs when
available must be completed for award of the 7-skill level.

2.4. Superintendent Level Training.

2.4.1. Specialty Qualification. All 4N171 qualifications apply.

2.4.2. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is required: Surgical nursing theory and
techniques; anatomy and physiology; medical ethics and legal aspects; operating room procedures;
sterilization and aseptic techniques; transporting the sick and wounded; operation and maintenance
of medical instrumentation and equipment; medical readiness; organization and function of
surgical/medical service, SPD, and clinical services; resource management; risk management;
continual quality improvement programs, and administration.

2.4.3. Education. Completion of the SNCOA is desirable.

2.4.4. Training. Upgrade training to the 9-skill level in 4N1X1/X, consists of promotion to the
rank of SMSgt.
2.4.5. Experience. For award of AFSC 4N191, qualification in and possession of AFSC 4N171,
4N171B, 4N171C, or 4N171D is mandatory.
2.4.6. Other. N/A
2.4.7. Training Sources/Resources. N/A

2.4.8. Implementation. N/A

2.5. RSVP. RSVP training is mandatory for all active duty, guardsmen, and reservists. RSVP
training requirements can be found at the AFMS Medical Readiness Training website:
https://kx2.afms.mil/kj/kx9/RSVP/Pages/RSVP_Checklists_Enlisted.aspx. This training must be
documented on the form provided on the RSVP web site. If you are a 4N1X1X/B/C/D, you need
to accomplish the training for you particular sub-specialty.




                                              24
Section D - Resource Constraints

1.1. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints which preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect
each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required,
office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a
minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

2. Specific Constraints.

2.1. Apprentice Level Training.

2.1.1. Constraint. No 3-skill level constraints exist.

2.2. Journeyman Level Training.

2.2.1. Constraint. No 5-skill level constraints exist.

2.3. Lateral Training.

2.3.1. No lateral training constraints exist.

2.4. Craftsman Level Training.

2.4.1. Constraints. No 7-skill level constraints exist.


Section E - Transitional Training Guide

NOTE: This area is reserved.




                                                25
PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC resident
classes beginning August 2015.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Attachment 4, Air Force Training Program Career
Field Education and Training, this STS:

2.1. Lists in column 1 of attachments 2, 3, 5, 7, and 9 are the most common tasks knowledge and
technical references (TRs) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill levels.
TRs in the source summary are commercial publications or other service publications that are
essential for OJT and mission accomplishment and are referenced by title throughout the STS.
The unit OJT section will consolidate the requirements for the unit they support and order
publications through the medical group/clinic library activity.

2.2. Uses the numbers 5 or 7 in column 2 of attachments 2, 3, 5, 7 and 9, to identify core tasks
required for upgrade to the 5-and 7-skill levels respectively in the surgical service apprentice
specialty. Personnel must be trained on appropriate core and duty tasks to complete upgrade
training. Not all tasks require third party certification. The symbol “^” in column 2
identifies critical tasks. These are the only tasks that require third party certification.

2.3. Certification. Column 3 of attachments 2, 3, 5, 7 and 9, is used to record completion of tasks
and knowledge t raining requirements. Use automated training management systems, if available,
to document technician qualifications. Task certification must show a certification or completion
date. NOTE: Trainers must (1) possess a 4N1XX AFSC or DoD equivalent; (2) be qualified on
the tasks they will train; (3) be recommended by their supervisor; and (4) have completed the Air
Force Training Course (AFTC). Certifiers must (1) be at least a SSgt or civilian equivalent; (2)
possess a minimum of 5-skill level; (3) have completed the AFTC; and (4) be trained and/or
certified on tasks they will certify. The certification official must be someone other than the
trainer. Licensed/credentialed healthcare providers may substitute as trainers and/or certifiers
without attending the AFTC. If the trainer is a licensed/credentialed provider, they may serve as
both the trainer and certifier.

2.4. Column 4 of attachments 2, 3, 5, 7 and 9, shows formal training, correspondence course and
QTP requirements. It also shows the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the trainee as a
result of training on the task and career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. For a
list of QTP volume numbers and titles, refer to Section C. NOTE: Training codes in columns 4B
and 4C reflected for 5 and 7-skill levels indicate the information provided in the CDCs. These
codes are not intended to reflect the level required to satisfy OJT upgrade requirements.

2.5. Contains qualitative requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by the resident training courses.

2.6. Is used to document tasks when placed in the Air Force Training Record (AFTR). Refer
to AFI 36-2201 for further guidance on documentation, transcribing, certification,
decertification, and recertification.

2.7. Is used as a performance standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the “Go” level. “Go”
means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local demands for
                                              26
accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures (“Go” level equates to “3c” in the STS
proficiency code key).

2.8. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). SKT is developed at the AETC Occupational Analysis Division, by SNCOs with
extensive practical experience in their career field. The test samples knowledge of STS subject-
matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to
higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the Enlisted Promotion
References and Requirements Catalog. WAPS is not applicable to the ANG or ARC.

3. Recommendations.

3.1. Identify inadequacies and recommend changes to this training standard through channels at
937 TRG/TGE, 2931 Harney Road, Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234 or use the Customer Service
Information Line via DSN 420-1080 or commercial (210) 808-1080) to report your findings.

3.2. Report inadequacies of and suggest corrections to this STS through proper channels to the
same point of contact listed in the above paragraph.

10 Attachments:

(1) Identification and Qualitative Requirements
(2) 4N1X1 STS
(3) Clinic Personnel STS
(4) 4N1X1 STS Training Reference (TR) Source Summary
(5) Urology (4N1X1B) STS
(6) 4N1X1B STS Training Reference (TR) Source Summary
(7) Orthopedics (4N1X1C) STS
(8) 4N1X1C STS Training Reference (TR) Source Summary
(9) Otolaryngology (4N1X1D) STS
(10) 4N1X1D STS Training Reference (TR) Source Summary




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE OFFICIAL



                                                  THOMAS W. TRAVIS
                                                  Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                                  Surgeon General




                                             27
                               Attachment 1: Identification and Qualitative Requirements
Attachment 1: Identification and Qualitative Requirements
This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)               Initials (Written)                                       SSAN (Last 4)

                                    Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I

N/I                                                                      N/I


                                               QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                  Scale       Definition: The individual
                                  Value
                                    1         Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                              Limited)
          Task                       2        Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                    3        Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                      4        Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                              (Highly Proficient)
                                    a         Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
         *Task                      b         Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                    c         Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                              (Operating Principles)
          Levels                    d         Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                    A         Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                    B         Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
       Knowledge                    C         Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                      D         Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

/ This mark indicates dual codes. Dual codes indicate the established requirement followed by a slash mark (/) and the proficiency level that will
be obtained under existing constraints, for example: 2b/X (unfounded) or 2b/a (partially funded). If a task or knowledge statement will not be
supported by a formal course or CDC, us a dash (-).

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                      28
Explanation of Columns and Documentation of Training

NOTE: Users are responsible for annotating pen-and-ink and page inserts/deletions when
specified by subsequent changes to this CFETP. A copy needs to be maintained in the units
Master Training Plan (MTP).

Column 1: Identifies the task/knowledge areas. Supervisors should circle the task items
required for the individual’s duty position as outlined in the MTP.

Column 2: Items in column 2 marked with a "*" are the tasks/knowledge that are trained in
resident wartime course. Those marked with a “3, 5, and/or 7” are core tasks, and those marked “*
and a 3, 5, and/or 7” are core and wartime tasks. All core tasks must be completed prior to any
upgrade in skill level.

Column 3: Used to document task proficiency/qualification to the GO/NO-GO level. Any item
that has a “^” in Column 3E must be certified by a certifying official.

Column 4: Identifies the training proficiency levels taught in formal training courses such as
resident training and CDCs.

NOTE: Training references are numbered in the STS and in the source summaries (attachments 4,
6, 8, and 10). The references are Air Force, DoD, other agency, or commercial publications that
are essential for OJT and mission accomplishment. Unit OJT section will consolidate the
requirements for the unit they support and order publications. Tasks that have a “–“ in the 3-, 5-,
7-skill level column are not trained in the resident or correspondence course. The Tasks are listed
for OJT training purposes only.




                                              29
                                                                            Attachment 2: 4N1X1 STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                 2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information Provided
                                                                              Task                                                           (See Notes)

                                                                                                                                                     A                   B               C           D       E
                                                                                       A           B         C           D          E           3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP     RSV
                                                                                      Trng       Trng     Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier   Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                                                                                      CDC            CDC CRS        QTP     RSV
                                                                                      Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     Course

1. Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) Organization
1.1 AFMS
TR: AFPD 44-1; AFI 44-102
1.1.1 Air Force Doctrine                                                                                                                        A          B            B                -            -       -
1.1.2 Mission                                                                                                                                   A          B            B                -            -       -
1.1.3 Organizational Structure                                                                                                                  A          B            B                -            -       -
1.1.4 Functions                                                                                                                                 A          B            B                -            -       -
1.2 Air Force Specialty (AFS) Job Descriptions
TR: Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD)
1.2.1 4N1X1                                                                                                                                     A          B            B                -            -       -
1.2.2 4N1X1B                                                                                                                                    A          B            B                -            -       -
1.2.3 4N1X1C                                                                                                                                    A          B            B                -            -       -
1.2.4 4N1X1D                                                                                                                                    A          B            B                -            -       -
1.3 Career progression
TR: AFECD; AFI 36-2101
1.3.1 4N131                                                                                                                                     A          B            B                -            -       -
1.3.2 4N151                                                                                                                                     A          B            B                -            -       -
1.3.3 4N171                                                                                                                                     A          B            B                -            -       -
1.3.4 4N191                                                                                                                                     A          B            B                -            -       -
1.3.5 4N000                                                                                                                                     A          B            B                -            -       -
1.4 Career field educational opportunities
1.4.1 Education programs                                                                                                                        -          -            B                -            -       -
1.4.2 Certification Agencies                                                                                                                    -          -            B                -            -       -
1.4.2.1 Liaison Council on Certification for the Surgical Technologist                                                                          -          -            B                -            -       -
(LCC-ST) TR: http://www.nbstsa.org/about/index.html
1.4.2.2 National Center for Certification Testing (NCCT) certification                                                                          -          -            B                -            -       -
programs
1.4.2.3 Certification Board for Sterile Processing and Distribution, Inc.                                                                       -          -            B                -            -       -
(CBSPD), certification programs
TR:http://www.sterileprocessing.org/cbspd.htm
1.4.2.4 Certified Registered Central Service Technician (CRCST)                                                                                 -          -            B                -            -       -
TR: http://iahcsmm.org/Certification/training.html#pab1_2
1.4.2.5 Subspecialty certification programs                                                                                                     -          -            B                -            -       -

1.4.2.5.1 National Board for Certification of Orthopedic Technologist                                                                           -          -            B                -            -       -
certification TR: http://ww.nbcot.net/
1.4.2.5.2 Society of Urologic Nurses and Associates (SUNA)                                                                                      -          -            B                -            -       -
TR: http://www.suna.org/cgibin/WebObjects/SUNAMain
1.6 Identify specific AFSC vulnerabilities                                                                                                      A          -             -               -            -       -
TR: AFI 10-701; AFI 33-201V1; AFI 33-202V1
2. Standards of Conduct

2.1 Ethical conduct
2.1.1 Legal aspects/responsibilities                                                                                                            A          B            B                -            -       -
2.1.2 Common negligent acts                                                                                                                     A          B            B                -            -       -
2.2 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.
(HIPAA) Guidelines
TR: AFI 41-210 Tricare Operations and patient administration
functions; Public Law 104-191
2.2.1 Patient confidentiality                                                                                                                   A          -            B                -            -       -
2.2.2 Release of patient information                                                                                                            A          -            B                -            -       -
2.3 Demonstrate appropriate customer service techniques
TR: Public Law 104-191, "HIPPA Act of 1996"
2.3.1 Active listening                                                                                                                          a          -             b               -            -       -
2.3.2 Verbal/non-verbal communication                                                                                                           a          -             b               -            -       -
2.3.3 Telephone etiquette                                                                                                                       a          -             b               -            -       -
2.3.4 Conflict resolution                                                                                                                       a          -             b               c            -       -
2.4 Define patient advocacy
2.4.1   Patient rights and responsibilities                                                                                                     A          -            B                -            -       -
2.4.2   Patient sensitivity                                                                                                                     A          -            B                -            -       -
2.4.3   Cultural/religious sensitivity                                                                                                          A          -            B                -            -       -
2.4.4   Emotional support for patient/significant others
2.4.4.1 Patient's needs                                                                                                                         A          -            B                -            -       -
2.4.4.2 Patient's fears                                                                                                                         A          -            B
3. Safety in AFMS Environment
TR: AFI 41-203; AFI 91-301.
3.1 AFOSH (Air Force Occupational Safety, Fire, Prevention, and Health)                                                                         A          -            B                -            -       -

3.1.1 Document Training AF Form 55                                            *5                                                                -          -            B                -            -       -
3.2 Operational Risk Management                                                                                                                 A          -            B                B            -       -
3.3 Hazard Communication Program (HAZCOM)                                                                                                       A          -            B                B            -       -
3.4 Perform fire safety procedures                                            *5                                                                a          -            b                -            -       -
3.5 Apply electrical safety standards:                                        *5                                                                a          -            -                -            -       -
3.6 Isolation/emergency power systems                                         *5                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
3.7 Team Strategies, tools and behaviors                                      *5                                                                -          -            -                -            -       -
3.8 Demonstrate compressed gas safety management procedures
3.8.1 Cylinder handling                                                       *5                                                                a          -             b               -            -       -
3.8.2 Cylinder storage                                                        *5                                                                a          -             b               -            -       -
3.8.3 In-line connectors/valves                                               *5                                                                a          -             b               -            -       -

                                                                                              30
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information Provided
                                                                          Task                                                           (See Notes)

                                                                                                                                                 A                   B               C           D       E
                                                                                   A           B         C           D          E           3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP     RSV
                                                                                  Trng       Trng     Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier   Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                                                                                  CDC            CDC CRS        QTP     RSV
                                                                                  Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     Course
3.8.4 Verify cylinder contents/pressures                                  *5                                                                a         2b             -               -            -       -
3.8.5 Replace Empty gas cylinders                                         5                                                                 a         2b             -               -            -       -
3.9 Demonstrate chemical safety procedures
3.9.1 Handling                                                             5                                                                a          -             b               -            -       -
3.9.2 Storage                                                              5                                                                a          -             b               -            -       -
3.9.3 Disposal                                                             5                                                                a          -             b               -            -       -
3.10 Demonstrate biohazard safety procedures
3.10.1 Handling                                                            5                                                                2b         -             b               -            -       -
3.10.2 Storage                                                             5                                                                2b         -             b               -            -       -
3.10.3 Disposal                                                            5                                                                2b         -             b               -            -       -
4. Infection Control           TR: AFI 44-108; Structure & Function
of the Body; Surgical Technology for the Surgical /Technologist: A
Positive Care Approach
4.1 Types of microorganisms
4.1.1 Viruses                                                                                                                               A          -            B                -            -       -
4.1.2 Bacteria                                                                                                                              A          -            B                -            -       -
4.1.3 Spores                                                                                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
4.2 Blood borne pathogens                                                                                                                   A          -            B                -            -       -
4.3 The infectious process
4.3.1 Modes of transmission                                                5                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
4.3.2 Body defense mechanisms                                              5                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
4.4 Perform hand washing                                                   5                                                                2b        2b            c                -            1       1
4.5 Don scrub attire                                                       5                                                                2b        2b            c                -            -       -
4.6 Limit movement in the surgical suite                                   5                                                                2b        2b            c                -            -       -
4.7 Proper personal hygiene techniques                                     5                                                                B          -            B                -            -       -
4.8 Center for Disease Control (CDC) Standard Precautions                  5                                                                B          -            B                -            -       -
4.9 Perform cleaning procedures                                                                                                                                                      -            -       -
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach
4.9.1 Surgical Suite
4.9.1.1 Initial cleaning                                                   5                                                                2b        2b             c               -            -       -
4.9.1.2 Between-case cleaning                                              5                                                                2b        2b             c               -            -       -
4.9.1.3 End-of-day cleaning                                                5                                                                2b        2b             c               -            -       -
4.9.1.4 Periodic Cleaning                                                  5                                                                2b        2b             c               -            -       -
4.9.2 Sterile Processing & Distribution                                    5                                                                2b        2b             c               -            -       -
4.9.3 Surgical Equipment Cleaning
4.9.3.1 Initial cleaning                                                   5                                                                2b        2b             c               -            -       -
4.9.3.2 Between-case cleaning                                              5                                                                2b        2b             c               -            -       -
4.9.3.3 End-of-day cleaning                                                5                                                                2b        2b             c               -            -       -
4.9.3.4 Periodic Cleaning                                                  5                                                                2b        2b             c               -            -       -
5. Sterile Processing and Distribution (SPD)
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach; AAMI Standards
5.1 Sterile Processing and Distribution mission                          *5/7^                                                              A          -            B                B            -       -
5.2 Perform SPD procedures
5.2.1 Select appropriate PPE                                             *5/7^                                                              2b        2b             -               -            -       -
5.2.2 Clean/dirty receiving
5.2.2.1 Perform Instrument collection/transport                           *5^                                                                b        2b             -               -            -       -
5.2.2.2 Verify Inventory Documentation                                    *5^                                                                b        2b             -               -            -       -
                                                                         *5/7^                                                              2b        2b             c               -            -       -
5.2.2.3 Perform Decontamination IAW manufacturer rec (add to SPD QTP)
5.2.3 Patient care item processing
5.2.3.1 Washer decontaminator/sterilizer                                 *5/7^                                                               b       2b/b            c               c            2       2
5.2.3.2 Perform Inspection and validation testing IAW manufacturer rec   *5/7^                                                               b       2b/b            -               -            -       -
5.2.3.3 Ultrasonic cleaner                                               *5/7^                                                               b       2b/b            c               c            2       2
5.2.3.4 Perform Inspection and validation testing IAW manufacturer rec   *5/7^                                                               b       2b/b            -               -            -       -
5.2.3.5 Lumen Washers                                                    *5/7^                                                               b       2b/b            c               c            -       -
5.2.3.6 Perform Inspection and validation testing IAW manufacturer rec   *5/7^                                                               b       2b/b            -               -            -       -
5.2.3.7 Other mechanical methods                                         *5/7^                                                               -         -             c               c            -       -
5.2.3.8 Manual methods                                                   *5/7^                                                              2b        2b             c               c            2       2
5.2.3.9 Instrument lubrication                                           *5/7^                                                              2b        2b             c               c            -       -
5.3 Perform Assembly procedures
5.3.1 Instruments/supplies sorting                                        *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            4       4
5.3.2 Instruments/supplies inspection                                     *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            4       4
5.3.3 Assemble instrument/supply sets                                     *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            4       4
5.3.4 Utilize appropriate inventory/count                                 *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            4       4
5.4 Perform packaging procedures
5.4.1 Rectangular wrapping method                                         *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            4       4
5.4.2 Diagonal wrapping method                                            *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            4       4
5.4.3 Peel-packs                                                          *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            4       4
5.4.4 Rigid containers                                                    *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            4       4
5.4.5 Item labeling                                                       *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            4       4
5.5 Sterilization procedures
5.5.1 Methods of sterilization
5.5.1.1 Steam                                                                                                                               B          -            B                -            -       -
5.5.1.2 Chemical                                                                                                                            B          -            B                -            -       -
5.5.1.3 Other                                                                                                                               b          -            b                -            -       -
5.5.2 Load/unload sterilizers
5.5.2.1 Steam                                                             *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            2       2
5.5.2.2 Chemical                                                          *5^                                                                b        2b             b               -            -       -
5.5.2.3 Other                                                             *5^                                                                b         -             b               -            -       -
5.5.3 Clean/Operate Sterilizers



                                                                                          31
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                        2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information Provided
                                                                     Task                                                           (See Notes)

                                                                                                                                            A                   B               C           D       E
                                                                              A           B         C           D          E           3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP     RSV
                                                                             Trng       Trng     Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier   Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                                                                             CDC            CDC CRS        QTP     RSV
                                                                             Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     Course
5.5.3.1 Steam                                                        *5^                                                               2b        2b             c               -            2       2
5.5.3.2 Chemical                                                     *5^                                                                b        2b             c               -            -       -
5.5.3.3 Other                                                        *5^                                                                b         -             c               -            -       -
5.6 Monitor sterilizers
5.6.1 Mechanical                                                     *5^                                                               2b        2b            c                -            -       -
5.6.2 Biological indicators                                          *5^                                                               2b        2b            c                -            -       -
5.6.3 Chemical indicators                                            *5^                                                               2b        2b            c                -            -       -
5.7 Distribute sterile items                                         *^                                                                 b         -            b                -            -       -
5.7.1 Verify Inventory Documentation                                 *5^                                                                b        2b            -                -            -       -
5.8 Maintain linen supply                                             *                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
6. Patient Preparation/Preoperative Care
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach, current edition
6.1 Verify surgical checklist completion                             *5                                                                1a        2b             c               -            -       -
6.2 Identify patient                                                 *5                                                                1a        2b             c               -            -       -
6.3 Identify patient needs                                            -                                                                 -         -             -               -            -       -
6.3.1 Age specific                                                    -                                                                1a        2b             -               -            -       -
6.3.2 Special needs                                                   -                                                                1a        2b             -               -            -       -
6.4 Confirm signed patient consent form                              *5                                                                1a        2b             c               -            -       -
6.5 Assist in moving patient to/from
6.5.1 Gurney                                                         *5                                                                1a        2b             c               -            -       -
6.5.2 Patient bed                                                    *5                                                                1a        2b             c               -            -       -
6.5.3 Crib                                                                                                                             1a        2b             b               -            -       -
6.5.4 Wheelchair                                                                                                                       1a        2b             b               -            -       -
6.6 Transport patient to the surgical suite                                                                                            1a        2b             -               -            -       -
7. Pharmacology
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach; Drug Information Handbook for Perioperative
Nursing
7.1 Medication types
7.1.1 Coagulants                                                                                                                       A          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.2 Anti-coagulants                                                                                                                  -          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.3 Vaso-constrictors                                                                                                                -          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.4 Vaso-dilators                                                                                                                    A          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.5 Antibiotics                                                                                                                      A          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.6 Steroids                                                                                                                         -          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.7 Diuretics                                                                                                                        -          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.8 Dyes/contrast media                                                                                                              A          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.9 Sedatives                                                                                                                        A          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.10 Narcotics                                                                                                                       -          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.11 Anti-cholinergic                                                                                                                -          -            B                -            -       -
7.1.12 Oxygen                                                                                                                          A          -            -                -            -       -
7.1.13 Other medications                                                                                                               A          -            B                -            -       -
7.2 Manage medications intraoperatively
7.2.1 Identify medications                                           *5                                                                2b        2b            c                -            7       7
7.2.2 Medication transfer methods                                                                                                      A                       B
7.2.3 Label medications                                              *5                                                                2b        2b            c                -            7       7
7.2.4 Monitor medication usage                                       *5                                                                2b        2b            c                -            7       7
7.3 Medication administration
7.3.1 Routes                                                         *5                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
7.3.2 Supplies/equipment                                             *5                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
7.3.3 Prepare/perform Medication
7.3.3.1 Injection                                                                                                                      -          -             -               -            -       -
7.3.3.2 Irrigation                                                                                                                     -          -             -               -            -       -
7.3.3.3 Topical                                                                                                                        -          -             -               -            -       -
7.3.3.4 Contrast Media                                                                                                                 -          -             -               -            -       -
7.4 Irrigation solutions
7.4.1 Normal saline                                                  *5                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
7.4.2 Sterile water                                                  *5                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
7.4.3 Ringer's solution                                                                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
7.4.4 Glycine solution                                                                                                                 A          -            B                -            -       -
7.5 Assist with irrigation procedures
7.5.1 Identify irrigation solutions                                  *5                                                                2b        2b            B                -            -       -
7.5.2 Label solutions                                                *5                                                                2b        2b            B                -            -       -
7.5.3 Monitor irrigation usage                                       *5                                                                2b        2b            B                -            -       -
7.6 Commonly used intravenous (IV)
7.6.1 Electrolyte solutions                                                                                                            B          -            B                -            -       -
7.6.2 Blood volume expanders                                                                                                           B          -            B                -            -       -
7.7 Commonly used IV supplies
7.7.1 Needles/catheters                                                                                                                A          -            B                -            -       -
7.7.2 Tubing                                                                                                                           A          -            B                -            -       -
7.8 Initiate peripheral IV infusion                                                                                                    -          -            b                -            -       -
7.9 Monitor intravenous fluid                                                                                                          -          -            b                -            -       -
7.10 Monitor infusion pumps                                                                                                            -          -            b                -            -       -
7.11 Change intravenous fluid                                                                                                          -          -            b                -            -       -
7.12 Discontinue intravenous fluid                                                                                                     -          -            b                -            -       -
7.13 Assist with blood administration
7.13.1 Prepare blood warmer                                                                                                                       -             b               -            6       6
8. Anesthesia
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach; Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines
current edition
8.1 Preoperative anesthesia medications



                                                                                     32
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                 2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information Provided
                                                                              Task                                                           (See Notes)

                                                                                                                                                     A                   B               C           D       E
                                                                                       A           B         C           D          E           3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP     RSV
                                                                                      Trng       Trng     Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier   Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                                                                                      CDC            CDC CRS        QTP     RSV
                                                                                      Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     Course
8.2 Types/methods of administration
8.2.1 General                                                                                                                                   A          -            B                -            -       -
8.2.2 Local                                                                                                                                     A          -            B                -            -       -
8.3 Commonly used supplies/equipment                                                                                                            A          -            B                -            -       -
8.4 Assist with respiratory complications                                                                                                       a          -            b                -            6       6
8.5 Assist with cardiovascular                                                                                                                  a          -            b                -            6       6
8.6 Assist with allergic reactions to
8.6.1 Malignant hyperthermia                                                                                                                    a          -             b               -            6       6
8.6.2 Shock                                                                                                                                     a          -             b               -            6       6
8.7 Assist with administration of oxygen
8.7.1 Fixed                                                                   *5                                                                b         2b             b               -            6       6
8.7.2 Portable                                                                *5                                                                1a        2b             b               -            6       6
8.8 Measure/document patient vital signs                                                                                                                   -             b
8.8.1 Blood pressure                                                                                                                                                                     -
8.8.1.1 Manual                                                                *5                                                                b          -             -               -            -       -
8.8.1.2 Electronic                                                            *5                                                                b          -             -               -            -       -
8.8.2 Pulse
8.8.2.1 Manual                                                                *5                                                                b          -             -               -            -       -
8.8.2.2 Electronic                                                            *5                                                                b          -             -               -            -       -
8.8.3 Respirations                                                            *5                                                                b          -             -               -            -       -
8.9 Maintain certification in healthcare provider basic life Support (BLS)    *5                                                                3c         -             -               -            -       -
TR: Basic Life Support for Healthcare Providers (AHA)
9. Daily Responsibilities
9.1 Check posted schedules
9.1.1 Technician assignment                                                                                                                     2b         -             b               -            -       -
9.1.2 Surgical case                                                                                                                             2b         -             b               -            -       -
9.2 Select required sterile supplies                                          *5                                                                2b         -             b               -            -       -
9.3 Gather required equipment                                                 *5                                                                2b         -             b               -            -       -
9.4 Set up/operate equipment
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach; Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines
Current edition; AAMI Standards
9.4.1 Electrosurgery devices                                                  *5                                                                2b         -             b               -            5       5
9.4.2 Cardiac monitors                                                                                                                           a         -             b               -            5       5
9.4.3 Defibrillators                                                                                                                             a         -             b               -            5       5
9.4.4 Surgical lights                                                         *5                                                                2b         -             b               -            -       -
9.4.5 Portable suction units                                                  *5                                                                2b         -             b               -            -       -
9.4.6 Hyper/Hypothermia units                                                                                                                    b         -             b               -            -       -
9.4.7 Solution warming cabinets                                                                                                                  a        2b             b               -            -       -
9.4.8 Fiber optic light sources                                                                                                                 2b         -             b               -            -       -
9.4.9 Surgical microscopes                                                                                                                       a         -             b               -            -       -
9.4.10 Lasers                                                                                                                                    a         -             b               -            -       -
9.4.11 Video equipment                                                                                                                          2b         -             b               -            -       -
9.4.12 Insufflators                                                                                                                              a        2b             b               -            -       -
9.4.13 Endoscopic equipment
9.4.13.1 Rigid                                                                *5                                                                a          -             b               -            -       -
9.4.13.2 Flexible                                                             *5                                                                a          -             b               -            -       -
9.4.14 Operating table
9.4.14.1 Manual                                                                                                                                 2b         -             b               -            -       -
9.4.14.2 Electrical                                                           *5                                                                2b        2b             b               -            -       -
9.4.14.3 Orthopedic fracture                                                                                                                     -         -             b               -            -       -
9.4.15 Doppler unit                                                                                                                              -         -             b               -            -       -
9.4.16 Sequential Compression Device                                           *                                                                 a        2b             b               -            -       -
10. Circulating Duties             TR: Surgical Technology for the
Surgical Technologist: A Positive Care Approach; Standards,
Recommended Practices and Guidelines current edition
10.1 Position OR equipment/furniture                                          *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            -       -
10.2 Open sterile items
10.2.1 Rectangular wrapped                                                    *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            4       4
10.2.2 Diagonally wrapped                                                     *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            4       4
10.2.3 Rigid containers                                                       *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            4       4
10.2.4 Peel packs                                                             *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            4       4
10.3 Assist moving patient to/from surgical table                             *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            -       -
10.4 Assist with patient positioning
10.4.1 Dorsal (supine)                                                        *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            -       -
10.4.2 Prone                                                                  *5                                                                2b         -             -               -            -       -
10.4.3 Lithotomy                                                              *5                                                                 b        2b             b               -            -       -
10.4.4 Other procedural positions                                                                                                                b         -             b               -            -       -
10.4.5 Anesthesia procedures                                                                                                                     a         -             -               -            -       -
10.5 Verify operative site                                                                                                                      2b         -             -               -            -       -
10.6 Insert/remove urinary catheter                                                                                                              a        2b             -               -            -       -
10.7 Perform hair removal                                                                                                                        a        2b             -               -            3       3
10.8 Select appropriate antiseptic agent
10.8.1 Patient considerations                                                 *5                                                                b         2b             b               -            3       3
10.8.2 Surgical site considerations                                           *5                                                                b         2b             b               -            3       3
10.9 Perform antimicrobial skin preps
10.9.1 Abdominal                                                              *5                                                                2b        2b             c               -            3       3
10.9.2 Extremities                                                            *5                                                                 b        2b             b               -            3       3
10.9.3 Perineal/Dirty areas                                                   *5                                                                 b        2b             b               -            3       3
10.9.4 Contaminated wounds                                                                                                                       b        2b             b               -            3       3
10.10 Assist sterile team members with donning sterile surgical attire        *5                                                                2b         -             -               -            4       4
10.11 Project sterile items intraoperatively                                  *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            -       -
10.12 Manage specimens/cultures


                                                                                              33
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                        2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information Provided
                                                                     Task                                                            (See Notes)

                                                                                                                                             A                   B               C           D       E
                                                                               A           B         C           D          E           3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP     RSV
                                                                              Trng       Trng     Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier   Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                                                                              CDC            CDC CRS        QTP     RSV
                                                                              Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     Course
10.12.1 Label specimens                                                  *5                                                             1a        2b             b               -             -       -
10.12.2 Document log book                                                                                                                a        2b             b               -             -       -
10.13 Prepare ancillary request forms                                                                                                    a        2b             b               -             -       -
10.14 Assist nurse with Operation Report                                                                                                 a         -             b               -             -       -
10.15 Assist nurse with surgical counts                                                                                                 2b         -             c               -             -       -
10.16 Assist with post anesthesia care                              *5                                                                   a        2b             b               -             -       -
10.17 Restock supplies in OR                                        *5                                                                  3c         -             -               -             -       -
11. Scrub Duties
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach; Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines
current edition
11.1 Perform 5 min surgical hand/arm scrub                               *5                                                             3c        3c             -               -         4       4
11.2 Dry hands using surgical technique                                  *5                                                             3c        3c             -               -         4       4
11.3 Don sterile surgical attire                                         *5                                                             3c        3c             -               -         4       4
11.4 Drape operating room furniture
11.4.1 Back table                                                        *5                                                             3c         3c            -               -         4       4
11.4.2 Basin stands                                                      *5                                                             3c         3c            -               -         4       4
11.4.3 Mayo stands                                                       *5                                                             3c         3c            -               -         4       4
11.5 Verify instrument/supply sterility                                  *5                                                             2b         3c
11.6 Organize instrumentation/supplies on sterile field                  *5                                                             1a         2b            -               -             -       -
11.6.1 Perform instrumentation/equipment function test                   *5                                                            2b/-       3c/-           -               -             -       -
11.6.2 Perform preoperative counts with nurse (RN)                       *5                                                             3c          -            c               -         4       4
11.7 Prepare sterile antimicrobial preps                                                                                                2b         3c            -               -             -       -
11.8 Drape specialty equipment                                                                                                           a          -            b               -         1       1
11.9 Gown/glove surgical team members                                    *5                                                             3c          -            b               -         4       4
11.10 Assist surgeon with draping patient                                *5                                                             2b          -            c               -         1       1
11.11 Maintain sterile field                                             *5                                                             3c          -            c               -         1       1
11.12 Select appropriate surgical instruments                                                                                           2b          -            b               -             -       -
11.13 Pass instruments to surgeon                                        *5                                                             3c          -            c               -             -       -
11.14 Pass sharps/needles using appropriate safety techniques
11.14.1 Hands free                                                       *5                                                             3c         -             c               -             -       -
11.14.2 Hand to hand                                                     *5                                                             3c         -             c               -             -       -

11.15 Manipulate endoscopic equipment under surgeon's supervision
11.15.1 Rigid                                                                                                                           a          -             b               -             -       -
11.15.2 Flexible                                                                                                                        a          -             b               -             -       -
11.16 Perform intraoperative tissue handling techniques
11.16.1 Traction/counter-traction                                                                                                       a          -             b               -             -       -
11.16.2 Dissection                                                                                                                      a          -             b               -             -       -
11.17 Maintain operative exposure
11.17.1 Manual retraction                                                                                                               a         2b             b               -             -       -
11.17.2 Mechanical retraction                                                                                                           a         2b             b               -             -       -
11.17.3 Suction                                                                                                                         a         2b             b               -             -       -
11.17.4 Illumination                                                                                                                    a         2b             b               -             -       -
11.18 Assist surgeon with hemostasis
11.18.1 Clamping                                                                                                                        a          -             b               c             -       -
11.18.2 Suture ligation                                                                                                                 a          -             b               c             -       -
11.18.3 Ligaclips                                                                                                                       a          -             b               c             -       -
11.18.4 Electrosurgical/electrocautery                                                                                                  a          -             b               c             -       -
11.18.5 Tamponade                                                                                                                       a          -             b               -             -       -
11.19 Define wound healing process                                                                                                      A          -             B               -             -       -
11.20 Wound closure materials
11.20.1 Suture Needles                                                                                                                  A          -             B               -             -       -
11.20.2 Suture Materials                                                                                                                A          -             B               -             -       -
11.20.3 Stapling Devices                                                                                                                A          -             B               -             -       -
11.20.4 Adhesives                                                                                                                       A          -             B               -             -       -
11.21 Assist surgeon with wound closure
11.21.1 Prepare suture material/needles                                  *5                                                             2b         -             c               -             -       -
11.21.2 Suture cutting                                                   *5                                                             2b        2b             b               -             -       -
11.21.3 Skin staplers                                                    *5                                                             2b         -             c               -             -       -
11.21.4 Adhesives                                                                                                                        a        2b             b               -             -       -
11.22 Perform site closure under direct provider supervision
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach, current edition
11.22.1 Suture incision                                                                                                                  a         -             b               c             -       -
11.22.2 Staple incision                                                                                                                  a         -             b               c             -       -
11.23 Remove staples/suture                                                                                                              b         -             b               -             -       -
11.24 Types of surgical drains                                                                                                           B         -             B               -             -       -
11.25 Manage specimens on the sterile field                                                                                             2b        2b             c               -         4       4
11.26 Perform intra-op counts with OR nurse (RN)                                                                                        2b         -             c               -         4       4
11.27 Assist surgeon with application of dressing                                                                                       2b         -             c               -             -       -
11.28 Breakdown sterile field
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach; Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines,
current edition
11.28.1 Contaminated drapes                                              *5                                                             2b         -             c               -             -       -
11.28.2 Instruments/supplies                                             *5                                                             2b         -             c               -             -       -
11.28.3 Biohazards/sharps                                                *5                                                             2b        2b             c               -             -       -
11.28.4 Initial/point-of-use cleaning gross contaminants                 *5                                                             2b         -             c               -             -       -
11.28.5 Medication disposal                                              *5                                                              b        2b             c               -             -       -




                                                                                      34
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                           2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information Provided
                                                                        Task                                                           (See Notes)

                                                                                                                                               A                   B               C           D       E
                                                                                 A           B         C           D          E           3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP     RSV
                                                                                Trng       Trng     Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier   Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                                                                                CDC            CDC CRS        QTP     RSV
                                                                                Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     Course
12. Sterile Storage
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach; Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines
current edition; AAMI Standards
12.1 Physical storage requirements
12.1.1 Nonsterile                                                        *                                                                B          -             B               -            -       -
12.1.2 Sterile                                                           *                                                                B          -             B               -            -       -
12.1.3 Environmental factors                                             *                                                                B          -             B               -            -       -
12.1.4 Liquids                                                           *                                                                B          -             B               -            -       -
12.1.5 Refrigeration                                                     *                                                                 B         -             B               -            -       -
12.2 Rotate stock                                                       *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            -       -
12.3 Verify shelf life                                                  *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            -       -
12.4 Check for outdated supplies                                        *5                                                                2b         -             c               -            -       -
13. Surgical Service Management
TR: AFI 36-2201; AFI 44-102; AFI 44-119
13.1 Orient new personnel to unit                                                                                                         -          -             b               c            -       -
13.2 Assign personnel to work area                                                                                                        -          -             b               c            -       -
13.3 Manage work assignments and priorities                                                                                               -          -             b               c            -       -
13.4 Develop duty schedules                                                                                                               -          -             b               c            -       -
13.5 Develop on call schedules                                                                                                            -          -             b               c            -       -
13.6 Manage hardcopy/electronic documents
13.6.1 Correspondence                                                                                                                     -          -             a               -            -       -
13.6.2 Reports                                                                                                                            -          -             a               -            -       -
13.6.3 Records                                                                                                                            -          -             a               -            -       -
13.6.4 Procedures                                                                                                                         -          -             a               -            -       -
13.6.5 Policies/Instructions                                                                                                              -          -             a               -            -       -
13.7 Develop military/ civilian
TR: AFI 36-2101; AFI 36-2406; AFMAN 36-203; AFI 36-1001
13.7.1 Job/Position descriptions                                                                                                          -          -             a               -            -       -
13.7.2 Performance standards                                                                                                              -          -             a               -            -       -
13.8 Evaluate work performance
13.8.1 Military personnel                                                                                                                 -          -             b               -            -       -
13.8.2 Civilian personnel                                                                                                                 -          -             b               a            -       -
13.9 Medical formal course graduate evaluations
TR: AFI 36-2201
13.9.1 Graduate assessment surveys (GAS)                                                                                                  -          -             A               B            -       -
13.9.2 Field evaluation questionnaires (FEQs)                                                                                             -          -             A               B            -       -
13.10 Career field surveys                                                                                                                -          -             A               B            -       -
13.11 Medical Expense Personnel Reporting System (MEPRS)                                                                                  -          -                                          -       -
AFI 41-102                                                                                                                                                         A               B
13.12 Manpower document                   TR: AFI 41-120
13.12.1 Unit Manpower Document (UMD)                                                                                                      -          -             a               b            -       -
13.12.2 Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)                                                                                             -          -             a               b            -       -
13.12.3 Authorization Change Request (ACR)/Authorization Change                                                                           -          -                                          -       -
Notice (ACN)                                                                                                                                                       a               b
13.12.4 Urgent manning requests                                                                                                           -          -             a               b            -       -
13.13 Develop Budget                              TR: AFI 41-120
13.13.1 Cost analysis                                                                                                                     -          -             a               b            -       -
13.13.2 Equipment requirement projection                                                                                                  -          -             a               b            -       -
13.14 Perform supply management procedures
TR: AFI 41-209
13.14.1 Activity Issue/Turn-In                                                                                                            -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.2 Backorder Report                                                                                                                  -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.3 Equipment Authorizations List (Allowance standard)                                                                                -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.4 Custodial Action/Custodial Report List                                                                                            -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.5 Stock levels                                                                                                                      -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.6 Materiel inventories                                                                                                              -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.7 Materiel references                                                                                                               -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.8 Supply requests                                                                                                                   -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.9 Equipment requests                                                                                                                -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.10 Blanket Purchase/ Standard Service Agreement                                                                                     -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.11 Automatic resupply systems                                                                                                       -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.12 Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support (DMLSS)                                                                               -          -             b               c            -       -
13.14.13 Materiel complaint procedures                                                                                                    -          -             b               c            -       -
13.15 Fraud, Waste & Abuse Prevention Detection standards
TR: AFI 23-111
13.15.1 Property liability                                                                                                                A          -             B               B            -       -
13.15.2 Pecuniary liability                                                                                                               A          -             B               B            -       -
13.15.3 Report of Survey                                                                                                                  -          -             B               B            -       -
13.16 Develop unit self-assessment checklist TR: AFI 44-119; HSI                                                                          -          -                                          -       -
Website: https//www.afia.af.mil/                                                                                                                                   b               c
13.17 Performance improvement (PI) process TR: AFI 44-119; HSI                                                                                       -                                          -       -
Website: https//www.afia.af.mil                                                                                                           A                        B               c
13.18 Risk management process           TR: AFI 44-119; HSI Website:                                                                                 -                                          -       -
HSI Website: https//www.afia.af.mil                                                                                                       A                        B               c
13.19 Infection control program guidelines TR: AFI 44-108                                                                                 B          -             B               c            -       -
13.20 The Joint Commission TR: Joint Commission website:                                                                                             -                                          -       -
http://www.jointcommission.org/                                                                                                           A                        B               B
14. Enlisted Specialty Training
TR: AFI 36-2201; AFI 91-202; AFI 44-119




                                                                                        35
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                          2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information Provided
                                                                       Task                                                            (See Notes)

                                                                                                                                               A                   B               C           D       E
                                                                                 A           B         C           D          E           3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP     RSV
                                                                                Trng       Trng     Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier   Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                                                                                CDC            CDC CRS        QTP     RSV
                                                                                Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     Course
14.1 Develop unit training program
14.1.1 Master task list                                                *5/7                                                               -          -             B               C            -       -
14.1.2 Master Training plan                                            *5/7                                                               -          -             B               C            -       -
14.1.3 Workcenter Orientation                                          *5/7                                                               -          -             B               C            -       -
14.2 Evaluate training
14.2.1 Task Evaluation (AF Form 803)                                   *5/7                                                               -          -             B               C            -       -
14.2.2 Upgrade Training progress                                       *5/7                                                               -          -             B               C            -       -
14.2.3 Initial Training Qualification                                  *5/7                                                               -          -             B               C            -       -
14.3 Electronic Training Record
14.3.1 AF Form 623 II                                                                                                                     -          -             B               -            -       -
14.3.2 AF Form 623 III                                                                                                                    -          -             B               -            -       -
14.3.3 AF Form 623a                                                                                                                       -          -             B               -            -       -
14.3.4 AF Form 797                                                                                                                        -          -             B               -            -       -
14.3.5 AF Form 1098                                                        *5                                                             -          -             B               -            -       -
14.3.6 JQS                                                                                                                                -          -             B               -            -       -
14.3.7 User Files                                                                                                                         -          -             B               -            -       -
15. Anatomy and Physiology                                      TR:
Structure & Function of the Body
15.1 Basic medical terms                                                                                                                  A          -             B               -            -       -
15.2 Common operative procedures                                                                                                          A          -             B               -            -       -
15.3 Body planes, surfaces, and cavities                                                                                                  A          -             B               -            -       -
15.4 Cell, Tissue, and Organ Composition                                                                                                  A          -             B               -            -       -
15.5.1 Integumentary                                                                                                                      A          -             B               -            -       -
15.5.2 Skeletal                                                                                                                           A          -             B               -            -       -
15.5.3 Muscular                                                                                                                           A          -             B               -            -       -
15.5.4 Nervous                                                                                                                            A          -             B               -            -       -
15.5.5 Circulatory                                                                                                                        A          -             B               -            -       -
15.5.6 Lymphatic/Immune                                                                                                                   A          -             B               -            -       -
15.5.7 Respiratory                                                                                                                        A          -             B               -            -       -
15.5.8 Digestive                                                                                                                          A          -             B               -            -       -
15.5.9 Urinary                                                                                                                            A          -             B               -            -       -
15.5.10 Reproductive                                                                                                                      A          -             B               -            -       -
15.6 Sensory functions
15.6.1 Vision                                                                                                                             A          -             B               -            -       -
15.6.2 Hearing                                                                                                                            A          -             B               -            -       -
15.6.3 Taste                                                                                                                              A          -             B               -            -       -
15.6.4 Smell                                                                                                                              A          -             B               -            -       -
16. Surgical Specialties
TR: Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach, current edition
16.1 Perform scrub/circulator duties
16.1.1 General surgery procedures
16.1.1.1 Major                                                        *5                                                                  a        2b/-            b               -            -       -
16.1.1.2 Minor                                                        *5                                                                  a        2b/-            b               -            -       -
16.1.1.3 Endoscopic                                                   *5                                                                  a        2b/-            b               -            -       -
16.1.1.4 Laser                                                                                                                            a         -              b               -            -       -
16.1.2 Obstetrics and gynecology procedures
16.1.2.1 Major                                                        *5                                                                  a        2b/-            b               -            -       -
16.1.2.2 Minor                                                        *5                                                                  a        2b/-            b               -            -       -
16.1.2.3 Endoscopic                                                   *5                                                                  a        2b/-            b               -            -       -
16.1.2.4 Laser                                                                                                                            a         -              b               -            -       -
16.1.3 Orthopedic procedures
16.1.3.1 Major                                                        *5                                                                  a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.3.2 Minor                                                        *5                                                                  a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.3.3 Arthroscopic                                                 *5                                                                  a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.4 Genitourinary surgery procedures
16.1.4.1 Major                                                                                                                            a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.4.2 Minor                                                                                                                            a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.4.3 Endoscopic                                                                                                                       a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.4.4 Laser                                                                                                                            a          -             b               -            -       -
16.1.5 Cardio/Thoracic surgery procedures
16.1.5.1 Major                                                                                                                            -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.5.2 Minor                                                                                                                            -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.5.3 Endoscopic                                                                                                                       -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.5.4 Laser                                                                                                                            -          -             b               -            -       -
16.1.6 Vascular surgery procedures
16.1.6.1 Major                                                                                                                            -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.6.2 Minor                                                                                                                            -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.6.3 Endoscopic                                                                                                                       -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.6.4 Laser                                                                                                                            -          -             b               -            -       -
16.1.7 Neurosurgery procedures
16.1.7.1 Major                                                                                                                            -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.7.2 Minor                                                                                                                            -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.7.3 Endoscopic                                                                                                                       -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.7.4 Laser                                                                                                                            -          -             b               -            -       -
16.1.8 Ophthalmology procedures
16.1.8.1 Major                                                                                                                            -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.8.2 Minor                                                                                                                            -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.8.3 Laser                                                                                                                            -         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.9 Otolaryngology procedures
16.1.9.1 Major                                                                                                                            a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.9.2 Minor                                                                                                                            a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.9.3 Endoscopic                                                                                                                       a         2b/-           b               -            -       -




                                                                                        36
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information Provided
                                                            Task                                                           (See Notes)

                                                                                                                                   A                   B               C           D       E
                                                                     A           B         C           D          E           3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP     RSV
                                                                    Trng       Trng     Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier   Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                                                                    CDC            CDC CRS        QTP     RSV
                                                                    Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     Course
16.1.9.4 Laser                                                                                                                a          -             b               -            -       -
16.1.10 Oral/maxillofacial surgery procedures
16.1.10.1 Major                                                                                                               a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.10.2 Minor                                                                                                               a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.10.3 Endoscopic                                                                                                          a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.11 Plastic surgery procedures
16.1.11.1 Major                                                                                                               a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.11.2 Minor                                                                                                               a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.11.3 Endoscopic                                                                                                          a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.11.4 Laser                                                                                                               a          -             b               -            -       -
16.1.12 Pediatric surgery
16.1.12.1 Major                                                                                                               a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.12.2 Minor                                                                                                               a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.12.3 Endoscopic                                                                                                          a         2b/-           b               -            -       -
16.1.12.4 Laser                                                                                                               a          -             b               -            -       -
17. Medical Readiness
17.1 Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) concepts                                                                                   -          -             -               -            -       -
TR:https//aef.afpc.randolph.af.mil
17.2 Expeditionary Medical Support (EMEDS) - HRT (Health
Response team) surgical roles
17.2.1 Surgical Unit Type Codes (UTC)                                                                                         -          -             A               B            -       -
17.2.2 Readiness Skills Verification Program (RSVP)                                                                           -          -             A               B            -       -




                                                                            37
                                                                    Attachment 3: Clinic Personnel STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                        2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate Training/Information Provided
                                                                     Task                                                           (See Notes)
                                                                                                                                            A                   B               C           D       E
                                                                              A           B         C           D          E           3 Skill Level      5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP     RSV
                                                                             Trng       Trng     Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier   Phase I Phase II
                                                                                                                                                             CDC            CDC CRS        QTP     RSV
                                                                             Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     Course
18 CLINIC ADMINISTRATION TR: AFI 33-332; AFI 41-120; AFI 41-
210; AFI 41-211; AFI 44-119; Comprehensive Accreditation Manual
for Hospitals: The Official Handbook (CAMH)
18.1 Patient Scheduling
18.1.2 Manually schedule appointments                                                                                                  -          -             b               -            -       -
18.1.3 Coordinate scheduling diagnostic therapeutic test requests                                                                      -          -             a               -            -       -
18.1.4 Coordinate OR case scheduling
18.1.4.1 Electronic                                                                                                                    -          -             b               -            -       -
18.1.4.2 Manual                                                                                                                        -          -             b               -            -       -
18.1.4.3 Documentation                                                                                                                                                                       -       -
18.1.4.4 Medical Rep/ Specialty Equipment                                                                                              -          -             b               -            -       -
18.1.5 Ambulatory Data System (ADS)
18.1.5.1 Diagnosis Coding                                                                                                              -          -             A               B            -       -
18.1.5.2 Procedure Coding                                                                                                              -          -             A               B            -       -
18.2 Patient education
18.2.1 Preoperative patient counseling                                                                                                            -             -               -            -       -
18.2.2 Medical condition                                                                                                                          -             -               -            -       -
18.3 Patient reception
18.3.1 Review consults                                                                                                                 -          -             A               -            -       -
18.3.2 Screen/review patient records                                                                                                   -          -             A               -            -       -
18.3.3 Eligibility of care
18.3.3.1 ID check                                                                                                                      -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.3.2 DEERS check                                                                                                                   -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.4 Medical Records Management
18.3.4.1 Outpatient
18.3.4.1.1 Chargeout                                                                                                                   -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.4.1.2 Security                                                                                                                    -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.4.1.3 Documentation                                                                                                               -          -             B               B            -       -
18.3.4.2 Inpatient
18.3.4.2.1 Chargeout                                                                                                                   -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.4.2.2 Security                                                                                                                    -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.4.2.3 Documentation                                                                                                               -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.5 Initiate and ensure completion of consent forms                                                                                 -          -             b               -            -       -
18.3.6 Management and secure storage of controlled items
18.3.6.1 Medications
18.3.6.1.1 Narcotic                                                                                                                    -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.6.1.2 non-narcotic                                                                                                                -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.6.1.3 Injectables                                                                                                                 -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.6.1.4 Check expiration                                                                                                            -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.6.1.4 Stock rotation                                                                                                              -          -             B               -            -       -
18.3.6.2 Needles/syringes                                                                                                              -          -             B               -            -       -




                                                                                     38
                                       Attachment 4
            4N1X1 STS TRAINING REFERENCES (TR) SOURCE SUMMARY COMMERCIAL

                                                PUBLICATIONS

American Heart Association. Basic Life Support for Health Care Provider, current edition. National
Center, 7272 Greenville Ave., Dallas TX

American Heart Association. Instructor’s Manual Basic Life Support, current edition. National Center,
7272 Greenville Ave., Dallas TX

Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) Standards, current edition.
Website: http://www.aami.org/index.htm

Association of Operating Room Nurses (AORN). Drug Information Handbook for Perioperative Nursing,
current edition.

Association of Operating Room Nurses (AORN). Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines, current
edition.

Association of Operating Room Nurses (AORN). Website: http://www.aorn.org/

Association of Surgical Technologists (AST). Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist: A Positive
Care Approach, current edition.

Certification Board for Sterile Processing and Distribution, Inc. (CBSPD). Website:
http://www.sterileprocessing.org/cbspd.htm

Joint Commission Accreditation Healthcare Organizations. Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for
Hospitals: The Official Handbook Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for Hospital Joint Commission
Resources, current edition.

National Board for Certification of Orthopaedic Technologists (NBCOT). Website: http://www.nbcot.net/

National Board of Surgical Technology and Surgical Assisting. Website:
http://www.nbstsa.org/about/index.html

Society of Urologic Nurses and Associates (SUNA). Website:
http://www.suna.org

The Joint Commission. Website: http://www.jointcommission.org/

Thibodeau, Gary A. and Patton, Kevin T. Structure and Function of the Body, current edition.




                                              39
                              GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

Public Law

Public Law 104-191, “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996,” August 1996.
Department of Defense
DODM 6010.13-M, Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System for Fixed Military Medical and
Dental Treatment Facilities

Department of the Air Force

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) AFI 10-701,

Operations Security (OPSEC)

AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force

AFI 31-101, Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO)

AFI 33-201V1, Communications Security (COMSEC)

AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management

AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program

AFMAN 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions

AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian Performance Program AFI36-2101, Classifying

Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted) AFI 36-2201V1, Training Development

Delivery and Evaluation AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems

AFPAM 36-2627, Airman and NCO Performance Feedback System (EES)
AFMAN 37-104, Managing Information to Support the Air Force Mission

AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records

AFI 41-102, The Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System for Fixed Military Medical and
Dental Treatment Facilities (RCS: DD-HA (AR) 1453)

AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training

AFI 41-120, Medical Resource Operations

AFI 41-203, Electrical Safety in Medical Treatment Facilities

AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support
                                              40
AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions

AFI 41-211, The Medical Information Systems Management Program

AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations

AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management

AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program

AFI 44-119, Clinical Performance Improvement

AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program

Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA). Website: http://www.afia.af.mil/




                                               41
                                                            Attachment 5: Urology (4N1X1B) STS
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                         Task                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Notes)
                                                                                                                               A                 B              C           D
                                                                    A           B        C           D           E        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level   QTP
                                                                   Trng     Trng      Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier                                        CDC
                                                                                                                            Phase I           CDC
                                                                   Start   Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials                                         CRS
19. UROLOGY SURGICAL SPECIALTY
TR: DODM 6010.13, Medical Expense and
Performance Reporting System for Fixed Military
Medical and Dental Treatment Facilities: Association
of Surgical Technologists, AST. Surgical Technology
for the Surgical technologist
19.1 Urological anatomy and physiology                                                                                         B                 -
19.2 Urologic terminology                                                                                                      B                 -
TR: Smith's General Urology
19.3 Special urological instruments                                                                                            B                 -
TR: Smith's General Urology
19.4 Special urological equipment                                                                                              B                 -
TR: Smith's General Urology
19.5 Perform Clinical Procedures
TR: Smith's General Urology; Lippincott Manual of
Nursing Practice
19.5.1 Catheterizations                                 5                                                                     2b                 -                         B1
19.5.2 Collect urine specimen
19.5.2.1 Catheterized                                   5                                                                     2b                 -
19.5.2.2 "Clean-catch"                                  5                                                                     2b                 -
19.5.3 Intraurethral instillations                      5                                                                    2b/b                -
19.5.4 Intravesical instillations                       5                                                                    2b/b                -
19.5.5 Bladder chemotherapy treatment                                                                                          a                 -
19.5.6 Injections
19.5.6.1 Prepare medications for injection
19.5.6.2 Intramuscular injections                                                                                                -               -                         B1
19.5.6.3 Intradermal injections                                                                                                   -              -                         B1
19.5.6.4 Penile injections                                                                                                      -                -
19.5.7 Urodynamic studies
19.5.7.1 Cystometrogram                                                                                                        1a                -
19.5.7.2 Urethral pressure profiles                                                                                            1a                -
19.5.7.3 Electro-myography                                                                                                     1a                -
19.5.7.4 Flow studies                                   5                                                                      2b                -
19.5.8 Urethral dilation's                                                                                                    1a/a               -
19.5.9 Perform macrourinalysis
19.5.9.1 Manual                                         5                                                                     2b                 -                         B1
19.5.9.2 Electronic                                                                                                           2b                 -
19.6 Position patients                                  5                                                                     2b                 -
19.7 Prep patients                                      5                                                                     2b                 -
19.8 Bladder ultrasound                                 5                                                                     2b                 -
19.9 Remove staples/sutures                                                                                                   2b                 -
19.10. Assist with minor surgical (clinic) procedures
19.10.1 Circumcisions                                                                                                         2b/b               -
19.10.2 Vasectomy                                       5                                                                     2b/b               -
19.10.3 Prostate biopsy                                 5                                                                     2b/b               -
19.10.4 Scrotal I & D                                                                                                         2b/b               -
19.10.5 Meatotomy                                                                                                          2b/b 2b/b             -
19.10.6 Wart/condyloma excision                                                                                              2b/b                -
19.11 Perform/assist with procedures
TR: Smith's General Urology; Surgical Technology for
the Surgical technologist
19.11.1 Diagnostic radiographic
19.11.1.1 Retrograde urethrogram                        5                                                                     2b                 -                         B1
19.11.1.2 Cystogram                                                                                                           2b                 -                         B1
19.11.1.3 Voiding cystourethrogram                                                                                            2b                 -                         B1
19.11.1.4 Nephrostogram                                                                                                       2b/b               -
19.11.1.5 Fluoroscopic radiology                        5                                                                     2b                 -                         B1
19.11.1.6 Retrograde pyelogram                          5                                                                     2b                 -
19.11.1.7 Intravenous pyelogram                                                                                               2b/b               -
19.11.1.8 Kidney Ureter Bladder (KUB)                   5                                                                     2b                 -
19.11.1.9 Allergic reactions and response               5                                                                     2b/b               -
19.11.2 Endoscopic




                                                                           42
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                        Task                                                          Training/Information Provided (See
                                                                                                                      Notes) A                  B              C           D
                                                                   A           B        C           D           E        3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level   QTP
                                                                  Trng      Trng     Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier                                        CDC
                                                                                                                           Phase I           CDC
                                                                  Start   Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials                                        CRS
19.11.2.1 Cystoscopy
19.11.2.1.1 Rigid                                      5                                                                     2b                 -
19.11.2.1.2 Flexible                                   5                                                                     2b                 -
19.11.2.1.3 With stent placement                       5                                                                     2b/b               -
19.11.2.2 Ureteroscopy                                 5                                                                     2b/b               -
19.11.2.3 Calculus extraction by stone basket          5                                                                     2b/b               -
19.11.2.4 Transurethral Resection of Prostate (TURP)   5                                                                     2b/b               -
19.11.2.5 Transurethral Incision of Prostate (TUIP)                                                                          2b/b               -
19.11.2.6. Transurethral Resection of Bladder Tumor    5                                                                     2b/b               -
(TURBT)
19.11.3 Lithotripsy
19.11.3.1 Laser                                                                                                              2b/b               -
19.11.3.2 Electrohydraulic (EHL)                                                                                             2b/b               -
19.11.3.3 Percutaneous Nephrolithotripsy                                                                                     2b/b               -
19.11.3.4 Extracorporeal Shockwave (ESWL)                                                                                    2b/b               -
19.12 Perform Scrub duties (OR)
TR: Surgical Technology: Principles and Practice
19.12.1 Orchiopexy                                                                                                           2b/b               -
19.12.2 Circumcisions/Dorsal slit                                                                                            2b/b               -
19.12.3 Hydrocelectomy/hernia repair                                                                                         2b/b               -
19.12.4 Varicocelectomy                                                                                                      2b/b               -
19.12.5 Spermatocelectomy                                                                                                    2b/b               -
19.12.6 Orchiectomy                                                                                                          2b/b               -
19.12.7 Pyeloplasty                                                                                                          2b/b               -
19.12.8 Pyelolithotomy                                                                                                       2b/b               -
19.12.9 Prostatectomy
19.12.9.1 Suprapubic                                                                                                         2b/b               -
19.12.9.2 Radical                                                                                                            2b/b               -
19.12.9.3 Perineal                                                                                                           2b/b               -
19.12.10 Nephrectomy                                                                                                         2b/b               -
19.12.11 Radical Cystectomy with Illeoconduit                                                                                2b/b               -
19.12.12 Vasovasostomy                                                                                                       2b/b               -
19.12.13 Robotic Procedures                                                                                                  2b/b               -
19.13 Patient teaching
TR: Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice; Urologic
Nursing: Principles and Practice
19.13.1 Urostomy (stoma) care                                                                                                 A                 -
19.13.2 Self-catheterization                           5                                                                      A                 -




                                                                          43
                                   Attachment 6
              4N1X1B STS TRAINING REFERENCES (TR) SOURCE SUMMARY

                                 COMMERCIAL PUBLICATIONS

Fuller, Joanna Kotcher. Surgical Technology: Principles and Practice, current edition. Karlowicz,

Karen A. Urologic Nursing: Principles and Practice, current edition.

Kozier, Barbara J., et al. Fundamentals of Nursing: Concepts, Process, and Practice, current edition.

Nettina, Sandra M. Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice. , current edition.

Tanagho, Emil A. and McAninch, Jack W. Smith’s General Urology, current edition.

Association of Surgical Technologists, AST. Surgical Technology for the Surgical technologist, current
edition.

                                 GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

Department of Defense

DODM 6010.13-M, Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System for Fixed Military Medical
and Dental Treatment Facilities




                                              44
                                                 Attachment 7: Orthopedic (4N1X1C) STS
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                Task                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Notes)
                                                                                                                               A                B              C           D
                                                              A           B            C          D          E
                                                                                                                         3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level   QTP
                                                                         Trng      Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier
                                                          Trng Start                                                       Phase I          CDC           CDC CRS
                                                                       Complete     Initials   Initials    Initials
20 ORTHOPEDIC SURGICAL
SPECIALTY
TR: AO/ASIF Instruments and
Implants: A Technical Manual;
Handbook of Orthopaedic Emergencies;
Manual of Orthopaedics; Orthopaedics;
The Traction Handbook; Association of
Surgical Technologists, AST. Surgical
Technology for the Surgical technologist.

20.1 Anatomy and Physiology
20.1.1 Medical Terminology                                                                                                    A                -               -
20.1.2 Location and function of the
                                                                                                                              A                -               -
peripheral nervous system
20.1.3 Location and anatomical structure
                                                                                                                              A                -               -
related to orthopedic disorders
20.1.3.1 Bony structures                                                                                                      A                -               -
20.1.3.2 Major joints, structures, and
                                                                                                                              A                -               -
functions
20.1.3.3 Major muscles and their functions                                                                                    A                -               -
20.2 Apply and remove orthopaedic
devices/braces
TR: Orthopaedics
20.2.1 Plaster and fiberglass
20.2.1.1 Casts
20.2.1.1.1 Standard short arm                      *5                                                                         2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.2 Short arm (boxer type)                  *5                                                                         2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.3 Short arm (radial gutter)                                                                                          b                -               -
20.2.1.1.4 Short arm thumb spica                   *5                                                                         2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.5 Standard long arm                       *5                                                                         2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.6 Long arm hanging                                                                                                   b                -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.7 Long arm Thumb spica                    *5                                                                         b                -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.8 Muenster                                                                                                           b                -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.9 Long leg                                *5                                                                         2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.10 Short leg                              *5                                                                         2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.11 Patella tendon bearing                                                                                            b                -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.12 Long leg cylinder                                                                                                 2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.13 Hip spica                                                                                                         b                -               -          C1
20.2.1.1.14 Total Contact                                                                                                     b                -               -
20.2.1.1.15 Club Foot                                                                                                          -               -               -
20.2.1.2 Splints
20.2.1.2.1 Short arm (Volar)                       5                                                                          2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.2.2 Short arm sugar tong                    5                                                                          2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.2.3 Ulnar Gutter                            5                                                                          2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.2.4 Radial Gutter                                                                                                      b                -
20.2.1.2.5 Thumb Spica                             5                                                                          2b               -
20.2.1.2.6 Long arm (Posterior)                    5                                                                          b                -               -          C1
20.2.1.2.7 Long arm sugar tong                     5                                                                          2b               -               -          C1
20.2.1.2.8 Long leg (Posterior)                                                                                               b                -               -          C1
20.2.1.2.9 Short leg (Posterior)                   5                                                                          2b               -               -          C1
20.1.2.10 Robert Jones splint/dressing             5                                                                          2b               -               -          C1
20.2.2 Cast/Splint removal and
modification
20.2.2.1 Uni-valve/Bi-valve                        5                                                                          2b               -               -
20.2.2.2 Window/Wedging                                                                                                       2b               -               -
20.2.2.3 Patient teaching
20.2.2.3.1 Cast/splint care                        5                                                                          2b               -               -           -
20.2.2.3.2 Discuss complications                                                                                              b                -               -           -
20.2.2.3.3 Select and fit off-the-shelf
bracing
20.2.2.3.3.1 Cock-up wrist                         5                                                                          2b               -               -           -
20.2.2.3.3.2 Knee immobilizer                      5                                                                          2b               -               -           -
20.2.2.3.3.3 Cam walker                            5                                                                          2b               -               -           -
20.2.2.3.3.4 Ankle                                 5                                                                          2b               -               -           -
20.2.2.3.3.5 Other                                                                                                            2b               -               -           -


                                                                                  45
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 Task                                                             Training/Information Provided (See Notes)

                                                            A          B           C          D          E          3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level   QTP
                                                                     Trng      Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier
                                                        Trng Start                                                    Phase I           CDC           CDC CRS
                                                                   Complete     Initials   Initials    Initials
20.2.3 Traction
TR: Manual of Orthopaedics
20.2.3.1 Pulley mechanics                                                                                                2b                -               -
20.2.2.2 Methods of application
20.2.2.2.1 Skin                                                                                                          1b                -               -
20.2.2.2.2 Skeletal                                                                                                      b                 -               -
20.2.2.3 Traction
                                                                                                                         A                 -               -
Precautions/Complications
20.2.2.4 Basic Traction Applications
20.2.2.4.1 Buck's                                                                                                        2b                -               -         C1
20.2.2.4.2 Balanced suspension w/skin                                                                                    b                 -               -         C1
20.2.2.4.3 Balanced suspension w/skeletal                                                                                A                 -               -         C1
20.2.2.4.4 Finger Traps                           5                                                                      2b                -               -
20.2.2.4.5 Other traction setups                                                                                          -                -               -
20.3.1 Prepare medication for injection           5                                                                       -                -               -
20.3.2 Setup instruments/equipment for                                                                                    -                -               -
orthopaedic procedures
20.3.3 Instruct patients in use of crutches,                                                                             2b                -               -
                                                  5
canes, and other orthopaedic appliances.
20.4 Perform basic nursing care
TR: Fundamental Skills and Concepts in
Patient Care; Lippincott Manual of
Nursing Practice
20.4.1 Suture removal                             5                                                                       -                -               -
20.4.2 Drain removal                                                                                                      -                -               -
20.4.3 Staple removal                             5                                                                       -                -               -
20.4.4 Dressing removal                           5                                                                       -                -               -
20.4.5 Post-op incision care                      5                                                                       -                -               -
20.4.6 Pin care                                                                                                           -                -               -
20.4.7 Wound care                                                                                                         -                -               -
20.4..8 Cast/Splint complications                 5                                                                       -                -               -
20.5 Treatment of injuries, disorders,
and deformities TR:AO/ASIF
Instruments and Implants: A Technical
Manual; Manual of Orthopaedics; The
Traction Handbook
20.5.1 Treatment of
20.5.1.1 Fractures (surgical/nonsurgical)         5                                                                      A                 -               -
20.5.1.2 Dislocations and subluxations                                                                                   A                 -               -
20.5.1.3 Sprains, strains, & contusions                                                                                  A                 -               -
20.5.1.4 Postural deformities                                                                                            -                 -               -
20.5.1.5 Congenital anomalies                                                                                            -                 -               -
20.5.1.6 Bone and soft tissue conditions                                                                                 -                 -               -
20.5.1.6.1 Tumors                                                                                                        -                 -               -
20.5.1.6.2 Muscles, tendons, and tendon                                                                                  A                 -               -
sheaths
20.5.1.6.3 Fascia and bursae                                                                                             A                 -               -
20.5.1.6.4 Nervous system                                                                                                A                 -               -
20.5.1.7 Joint conditions
20.5.1.7.1 Traumatic                                                                                                     A                 -               -
20.5.1.7.2 Acute infections                                                                                              A                 -               -
21.5.1.7.3 Wounds                                                                                                        A                 -               -
20.5.1.8 Ankylosing deformities                                                                                          -                 -               -
20.5.1.8.1 Peripheral nerve injuries                                                                                     A                 -               -
20.5.2 Perform scrub duties (OR)
20.5.2.1 Arthrodesis                                                                                                      -                -               -
20.5.2.2 Arthroplasty                                                                                                     -                -               -
20.5.2.2.1 Total joint replacement
20.5.2.2.1.1 Knee                                                                                                         -               A                -
20.5.2.2.1.2 Hip                                                                                                          -               A                -
20.5.2.2.1.3 Shoulder                                                                                                     -               -                -
20.5.2.2.2 Joint reconstructions                                                                                                                           -
20.5.2.2.2.1 Anterior cruciate ligaments          5                                                                       -               B                -
20.5.2.2.2.2 Posterior cruciate ligaments                                                                                 -               -                -



                                                                              46
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                                  4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 Task                                                             Training/Information Provided (See Notes)

                                                            A          B           C          D          E          3 Skill Level    5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level   QTP
                                                                     Trng      Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier
                                                        Trng Start                                                    Phase I           CDC           CDC CRS
                                                                   Complete     Initials   Initials    Initials
20.5.2.2.2.3 Arthroscopy                                                                                                                                   -
20.5.2.2.2.3.1 Knee                               5                                                                       -               B                -
20.5.2.2.2.3.2 Shoulder                           5                                                                       -               B                -
20.5.2.2.2.4 External fixation                                                                                            -               B                -
20.5.2.2.2.5 Internal fixation                                                                                            -               B                -
20.5.2.2.2.6 Other                                                                                                        -               -                -
20.6 Safely use and operate orthopedic
equipment
20.6.1 Fracture table                                                                                                     -                -               -
20.6.2 Positioning frames                                                                                                 -                -               -
20.6.3 Spica table                                                                                                        -                -               -
20.6.4 Traction Cart                                                                                                      -                -               -
20.7 Prepare patient for injection of joints,                                                                             -                -               -
bursae, and other musculoskeletal areas           5
TR: Manual of Orthopaedics




                                                                              47
                                 Attachment 8
            4N1X1C STS TRAINING REFERENCES (TR) SOURCE SUMMARY

                                COMMERCIAL PUBLICATIONS

Aluisio, Frank V., et al. Orthopaedics, current edition.

Hart, Raymond G., et al. Handbook of Orthopaedic Emergencies, current edition.

Nettina, Sandra M. Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice, current edition.

Swiontkowski, Marc F. and Iversen, Larry D. Manual of Orthopaedics, current edition.

Texhammer, Rigmor, et al. AO/ASIF Instruments and Implants: A Technical Manual, current
edition.

The Traction Handbook. Manufacturer’s Literature. Zimmer, USA, current edition.

Timby, Barbara Kuhn. Fundamental Skills and Concepts in Patient Care, current edition.

Association of Surgical Technologists, AST. Surgical Technology for the Surgical technologist,
current edition.




                                                48
                                         Attachment 9: Otolaryngology (4N1X1D) STS
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                 Task                                                          Training/Information Provided (See Notes)
                                                                                                                    A                B               C           D
                                                            A         B         C          D          E        3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP
                                                           Trng     Trng    Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                 Phase I         CDC           CDC CRS
                                                           Start   Complete Initials    Initials    Initials
21. OTOLARYNGOLOGY SURGICAL
SPECIALTY
TR: AFOSHSTD 48-20, Occupational
Noise and Hearing Conservation
Program; Surgical Technologists, AST.
Surgical Technology for the Surgical
technologist

21.1 Otolaryngology anatomy,
physiology, and terminology
TR: Essentials of Otolaryngology;
Current Diagnosis & Treatment
Otolaryngology -Head and Neck Surgery
21.1.1 Otolaryngologic anatomical                                                                                   A               -               -
structures
21.1.2 Otolaryngology-specific medical                                                                              A               -               -
terminology
21.2 Remove external ear debris and
foreign bodies     TR: Essentials of
Otolaryngology; Current Diagnosis &
Treatment Otolaryngology-Head and
Neck Surgery
21.2.1 Ear Instruments (microscope)             5                                                                   2b              b               -          D1
21.2.2 Suction (microscope)                     5                                                                   2b              b               -          D1
21.2.3 Recognize fungal infections of the                                                                           A               b               -
ear
21.3 Facial nerve monitoring                                                                                      2b/b              -               -

21.4 Application of nasal fracture
casts/splints
TR: Current Diagnosis & Treatment
Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery
21.4.1 Malleable                                                                                                   A                -               -
21.4.2 Thermoplastic                                                                                              2b/b              -               -
21.4.3 Internal/external nasal splint                                                                               A                               -
removal (site specific)                                                                                                             b
21.5 Application of dressings and packs                                                                           1a/a              -               -
21.6 Perform basic nursing care
TR: Lippincott Manual of Nursing
Practice
21.6.1 Suture removal                   5                                                                         2b/b              -               -          D3
21.6.2 Drain removal                    5                                                                         2b/b              -               -          D3
21.6.3 Staple removal                                                                                             2b/b              -               -          D3
21.6.4 Dressing removal                 5                                                                         2b/b              -               -          D3
21.6.5 Post-op incision                                                                                            A                b               -          D3
21.6.6 Assist with tracheostomy care                                                                              2b/b              b               -          D3
21.6.7 Culture swabs                                                                                               A                b               -          D3
21.7 Tuning fork                                                                                                   A                b               -

21.8 Assist physician in performing
otolaryngology clinical procedures
TR: Current Diagnosis & Treatment
Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery
21.8.1 Initial ENT examination       5                                                                              2b              -               -          D3
21.8.2 Salivary gland examination                                                                                    -              -               -
21.8.3 Sinus irrigations                                                                                            A               -               -
21.8.4 Peritonsillar abscess I & D                                                                                   b              -               -          D3



                                                                      49
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References   2. Core 3. Certification for OJT                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                Task                                                        Training/Information Provided (See Notes)
                                                                                                                 A                B               C           D
                                                         A         B         C          D          E        3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level    QTP
                                                        Trng     Trng    Trainee's   Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                              Phase I         CDC           CDC CRS
                                                        Start   Complete Initials    Initials    Initials
21.8.5 Anterior and posterior nasal packs                                                                        a               -               -          D3
                                                                                                                 b               -               -
21.8.6 Closed reductions of nasal fractures                                                                                                                 D3
21.8.7 Tracheostomy replacement                                                                                  b               -               -          D3
21.8.8 Wound debridement                                                                                         -               -               -          D3
21.8.9 Head and neck tumor care                                                                                  -               -               -          D3
21.8.10 Management of epistaxis                                                                                  a               -               -          D3
21.8.11 Topical medications/nasal spray        5                                                                 2b              b               -          D3
21.9 Perform scrub duties (OR)
21.9.1 Myringotomy and insertion of PE                                                                         2b/b              -               -
tubes                                          5
21.9.2 Tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy         5                                                               2b/b              -               -
21.9.3 Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP)        5                                                               2b/b              -               -
21.9.4 Septoplasty /Septorhinoplasty           5                                                               2b/b              -               -
21.9.5 Middle ear procedures
21.9.5.1 Tympanoplasty                                                                                           A               -               -
21.9.5.2 Stapedectomy                                                                                            A               -               -
21.9.5.3 Mastoidectomy                                                                                           A               -               -
21.9.6 Neck procedures
21.9.6.1 Thyroidectomy                     5                                                                   2b/b              -               -
21.9.6.2 Radical neck dissection                                                                                A                -               -
21.9.6.3 Tracheostomy                                                                                           A                -               -
21.9.7 Endoscopies
21.9.7.1 Laryngoscopy                      5                                                                   2b/b              -               -
21.9.7.2 Bronchoscopy                                                                                           A                -               -
21.9.7.3 Esophagoscopy                                                                                          A                -               -
21.9.8 Functional endoscopic sinus surgery                                                                     2b/b              -               -
(FESS)                                     5
21.9.9 Facial plastics/reconstruction
21.9.9.1 Blepharoplasty                                                                                        2b/b              -               -
21.9.9.2 Rhytidectomy                                                                                            -               -               -
21.9.9.3 Otoplasty                                                                                               b               -               -
21.9.9.4 Scar revisions                                                                                          -               -               -
21.9.9.5 Maxillofacial plating system                                                                          2b/b              -               -
21.9.9.6 LAUP (Laser assisted                                                                                    -               -               -
Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty)
21.10 Perform basic audiology
procedures
TR: Everyday Audiology: A Practical
guide for Health Care Professionals
21.10.1 Air conduction                                                                                           2b              -               -
21.10.2 Impedance                                                                                                2b              -               -
audiometry/tympanometry
21.10.3 Ear mold impressions                                                                                     1a              -               -
21.11 Safe operation and setup of
equipment
21.11.1 Audiometer                                                                                              2b               -               -
21.11.2 ENT examination chairs                                                                                  2b               b               -
21.11.3 ENT treatment cabinets/SMR unit                                                                         2b               b               -
21.11.4 Operating microscope                                                                                    2b               b               -
21.11.5 Laser                                                                                                  2b/b              a               -




                                                                   50
                                    Attachment 10
                    4N1X1D STS TRAINING REFERENCES (TR) SOURCE
                               SUMMARYCOMMERCIAL

                                           PUBLICATIONS

Joint Commission Accreditation Healthcare Organizations. Comprehensive Accreditation Manual
for Hospitals (CAMH)

The Official Handbook (Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for Hospitals (CAMH)). Joint
Commission Resources, current edition.

Lucente, Frank E., et al. Essentials of Otolaryngology, current edition.

Nettina, Sandra M. Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice, current edition.

Association of Surgical Technologists, AST. Surgical Technology for the Surgical technologist,
current edition.

Lalwani, Anil. Current Diagnosis & Treatment Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery, current
edition.

Koike, Kazunari J. Everyday Audiology: A Practical guide for Health Care Professionals, current
edition.



                                GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

Department of the Air Force

AFOSHSTD 48-20, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation Program




                                               51
Section B – Course Objective List

NOTE: This area is reserved.

Section C - Support Material

1. Supporting Material for Surgical Service Specialty. The following list of support
materials is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently referenced areas.

                                 Surgical Service Specialty
                               Qualification Training Packages
                                        F = Frequency

QTP Volume                                   Title                                 OPR
QTP 4N1X1X-01         Microbiology and Infection Control                           CFM
Module 1              Principles and Application of Surgical Asepsis       (Skills Verification)

QTP 4N1X1X-02         Sterilization and Disinfection                       CFM
Module 1              Preparation of Instruments, Sets, Packs and
                                                                           (F: Q20 months)
                      Supplies for Sterilization
Module 2              Principles of Loading and Unloading a Steam          (F: Q20 months)
                      Sterilizer

QTP 4N1X1X-03         Preoperative Preparation of the Patient              CFM
Module 1              Principles and Techniques for Removal of Body        (Skills Verification)
                      Hair
Module2               Performing Cleansing Skin Preps                      (F: Q20 months)

QTP 4N1X1X-04         Duties of Scrub and Circulating Personnel            CFM
Module 1              Scrubbing, Gowning and Gloving Self and Team         (F: Q20 months)
                      Members
Module 2              Establishing and Maintaining a Sterile Field         (F: Q20 months)
Module 3              Surgical Counts                                      (F: Q20 months)
Module 4              Care and Handling of Specimens                       (F: Q20 months)

QTP 4N1X1X-05         Set Up and Safe Operation of Equipment               CFM
Module 1              Electrosurgical Devices                              (F: Q20 months)
Module 2              Cardiac Monitors and Defibrillators                  (Skills Verification)
Module 3              Suction, Lights, and Operating Room Table            (F: Q20 months)

QTP 4N1X1X-06         Nursing Care of the Surgical Patient                 CFM
Module 1              Intravenous Infusion/Blood Administration            (Skills Verification)
Module 2              Vital Signs                                          (F: Q20 months)
Module 3              Basic Post-Anesthesia Nursing Care                   (F: Q20 months)




                                             52
QTP 4N1X1X-07          Medication Administration                             CFM
Module 1               Guidelines for Handling Drugs and Solutions           (Skills Verification)


F: These QTPs satisfy RSV training requirements along with BLS certification. Skills
verification is used to initially certify that an individual can demonstrate the adequate level of
skill and proficiency to correctly perform a task.


                                 Urological Surgical Specialty
                                   Qualification Training
                                  Packages F = Frequency

QTP Volume                           Title                                   OPR
QTP 4N1X1X-B1          Urology Surgical Specialty                     CFM
Module 1               Perform Clinical Procedures                    (F: Q20 months)
Module 2               Perform/Assist with Diagnostic                 (F: Q20 months)
                       Radiographic Procedures


                                Orthopedic Surgical Specialty
                                   Qualification Training
                                  Packages F = Frequency

QTP Volume                            Title                                  OPR
QTP 4N1X1X-C1          Application and Removal of Orthopedic          CFM
                       Devices
Module 1               Casts & Splints                                (F: Q20 months)
Module 2               Application of Traction                        (F: Q20 months)


                                    Otolaryngology Surgical
                                    Specialty Qualification
                                      Training Packages
                                        F = Frequency

QTP Volume                            Title                                  OPR
QTP 4N1X1X-D1          Removal of External Ear Debris and             CFM
                       Foreign Bodies                                 (F: Q20 months)
QTP 4N1X1X-D2          Application of Nasal Fracture Casts            (F: Q20 months)
                       and Splints
QTP 4N1X1X-D3          Clinic Procedures                              (F: Q20 months)
QTP 4N1X1X-D4          Basic Audiology Procedures                     (F: Q20 months)




                                               53
Section D - Training Course Index

1. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.

2. Air Force In-Residence Courses.


 COURSE NUMBER                 TITLE                              LOCATION(S)              USER

  L3ATP40030 00RA              Expeditionary Medical                Camp Bullis           ADAF
                               Readiness                                                  AFRC
                               Length: 2 days                                             ANG

  L8AQJ4N131 01AA              Surgical Service                  Ft Sam Houston, TX       ADAF
                               Apprentice-Phase I                                         AFRC
                               Length: 9 weeks and 1 day                                  ANG

  L5ABO4N131 02AA              Surgical Service                   Keesler AFB             ADAF
                               Apprentice-Phase II                Eglin AFB               AFRC
                               Length: 6 weeks and 2 days         Travis AFB              ANG
                                                                  Nellis AFB
                                                            Wright-Patterson AFB


  L9ALN4N1X1B 00AA             Urology Surgical Service          Ft Sam Houston, TX       ADAF
                               Apprentice                                                 AFRC
                               Length: 15 weeks and 2 days                                ANG

  L8ALJ4N13C00AA               Orthopedic Surgical Service      Ft Sam Houston, TX        ADAF
                               Apprentice                                                 AFRC
                               Length: 6 weeks                                            ANG

  L8ALJ4N131D00AA              Otolaryngology Surgical           Ft Sam Houston, TX       ADAF
                               Service Apprentice                                         AFRC
                               Length: 11 weeks                                           ANG




                                              54
 3. Air Force Institute of Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses.

   COURSE NUMBER                 TITLE                                 LOCATION(S)            USER
   CDC 4N151A                    Surgical Service Journeyman,          Gunter Annex,          ADAF
                                 Part I                                Maxwell AFB, AL

   CDC 4N151B                    Surgical Service Journeyman,
                                 Part II

   CDC 4N171                     Surgical Service Craftsman



 4. Exportable Courses. There is currently no exportable course available at this time. This area
 is reserved.

 5. Courses Under Development/Revision (due to changes in this CFETP).

 5.1. CDC 4N151A/B, Surgical Services Journeyman is under revision.

 5.2. CDC 4N171, Surgical Services Craftsman is under revision.

Section E – MAJCOM-Unique Requirements

1. Purpose. This section applies to all enlisted surgical service personnel assigned to all Air Force
Reserve (ARC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units.

2. Additional Apprentice (3-Skill Level) Training Requirements.

2.1. AFRC-Specific Requirements.

2.1.1. Qualification Training.

2.1.1.1. Upon completion of Surgical Service Apprentice Course and Surgical Service Apprentice
Phase II, the surgical service apprentice (non-prior and cross-trainees) will be assigned to an active
duty hospital for up to 120 days (minimum 60) to acquire proficiency in performing tasks for their
skill level. The length of training should depend on the apprentice’s civilian experience. The
apprentice should be assigned to a surgical suite and SPD. Active duty personnel should ensure that
appropriate experiences and supervision are provided to assist the apprentice in gaining the desired
confidence and proficiency.

2.1.1.2. To ensure continuity between resident and clinical training, the apprentice will forward a
copy of his/her technical school certificate, AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training, to the Reserve
unit of assignment. The Reserve unit of assignment will then initiate upgrade action using AF Form
2096, Classification/On-the-Job-Training Action, to award the 3-skill level and enter the
apprentice in the appropriate TSC “B” or “F”.



                                                 55
2.2. ANG-Specific Requirements.

2.2.1. Seasoning (Qualification) Training.

2.2.1.1. Upon completion of Surgical Service Apprentice Course – Phase I and Surgical Service
Apprentice - Phase II, all Surgical Service Apprentices will be assigned to an active duty hospital for
a period of 60 days to acquire proficiency in performing tasks for their skill level. Qualification
training must be accomplished in conjunction with Phase II training. The apprentice should be
assigned to a surgical suite and SPD. Active duty personnel should ensure that appropriate
experiences and supervision are provided to assist the apprentice in gaining the desired confidence
and proficiency on all core tasks for the specialty.

2.2.1.2. To ensure continuity between resident and clinical training, the apprentice will forward a
copy of his/her technical school certificate, AF Form 1256, to the Guard unit of assignment. The
Guard unit of assignment will then initiate upgrade action using AF Form 2096 to award the 3-skill
level and enter the apprentice in the appropriate TSC “B” or “F”. OPR: ANGRC/SGN, 3500 Fetchet
Ave., Andrews AFB, MD 20331-5157, DSN: 278-8303.

3. ARC RSV (Sustainment Training). Personnel in the 3-skill level must complete all core tasks
identified in the STS prior to 5- level upgrade. QTPs have been developed to standardize and
correspond with the RSVs. RSVs can be accomplished at active duty MTFs, Expeditionary Medical
Support (commonly referred to as EMEDs) and the Center for the Sustainment of Trauma and
Readiness Skills (commonly referred to as CSTARS).

Section F – Documentation of Training (Medical Specific)

Part 1: AFTR

1. AFTR Purpose. An enterprise-wide custom training management system designed to replace
the paper-based training records (previously called the Enlisted Training and Competency Folder).
It has been mandated for use by all enlisted career fields within the AFMS to document all training
actions and competency-related issues.

2. AFTR components managed by the supervisor are:

2.1. Master Task List (MTL). The MTL is a comprehensive list containing 100% of all tasks
performed within a work center. The MTL consists of the current STS, AF Form 623 Parts II and
III, AF Forms 797 and 1098 tasks, and tasks required to meet deployment and/or UTC requirements.

2.2. Master Training Plan (MTP). The MTP employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all
work center job requirements by using an MTL and serves as a guide for supervisors, trainers, and
certifiers to ensure that personnel are trained in an effective and efficient manner to meet training
and mission requirements. The MTP will include when tasks on the MTL should be trained
(priority/milestones), how they will be trained (resources/method), and approximately how long it
should take to train on individual tasks or set of tasks. Refer to AFI 36-2201 for guidance in
developing the MTP.



                                                 56
2.3. Duty Task List (DTL). The DTL is a list of all tasks required for a given duty position.
The supervisor creates the DTL by selecting tasks from the MTL.

2.4. Individual Training Record (ITR). All training is documented in the ITR by way of AFTR.
This is the electronic version of the former Enlisted Training and Competency Folder. The ITR is
made up of the AF Form 623 Parts I, II and III; AF Forms 623a, 797, 803 and 1098; and JQS.
This record is automatically populated based upon the duty position the individual is assigned to.
All enlisted personnel (CMSgt and below) with a medical AFSC will have an active ITR within
AFTR. Refer to AFI 36-2201 for guidance in documenting training on the various forms
contained within the ITR.

2.5. QTPs required to perform peacetime/wartime duties.

2.5.1. Required for all tasks identified in the CFETP that requires completion of a QTP before
upgrade.

2.5.2. Required for all tasks not listed in the CFETP and/or identified by the duty section or
facility as a high-risk procedure or task. NOTE: Tasks included in the CFETP have already been
reviewed. Those identified as high risk usually have a QTP. Other tasks in the CFETP do not
require QTPs.

NOTE: The 4N1X1X AFCFM serves as the initial point of contact for QTP development, and
may delegate this responsibility to the MFM.

3. AFTR provides the capability to upload training-related documents into an ITR. The following
documents (as applicable) will be uploaded into every 4N1X1X ITR:

3.1. Current BLS Card.

3.2. AF Form 2096.

3.3. AETC Form 156, Student Training Report (Remove IAW AFI 36-2201).

3.4. CDC Enrollment Cards (Remove IAW AFI 36-2201).

3.5. AF Form 34, Field Score Sheet (Remove IAW AFI 36-2201).

3.6. Course Examination Scorecard (Remove IAW AFI 36-2201).

4. Guidance for AFMS-required ITR documentation also includes, but is not limited to, AFI
41-106, Medical Readiness Program Management, AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management;
AFI 44-110, Medical Quality Operations; and AFI 46-101, Nursing Services and Operations.




                                               57
Part 2: Work Center Training Binder

5. Initial (work center orientation/supervisor initial evaluation) and ongoing (competency
verification) training is vital to the successful mission of any organization. To ensure all initial
and ongoing work center training meets required standards, each work center will maintain a
training binder (electronic or hard copy). This training binder will be utilized by supervisors and
trainers and will be set up in the following order:

5.1. Work center description. This includes daily work center mission, responsibilities, and any
age-range of patients cared for in this work center.

5.2. Work center training monitor appointment letter identifying primary, alternate, and the
individual’s roles and responsibilities.

5.3. Roster identifying work center trainer(s)/certifier(s).

5.4.   Job description/performance standards for each work center duty position.

5.5. Current CFETP and associated change(s) as found on Air Force E-Publishing for each
AFSC assigned to the work center. NOTE: It may be helpful to create/maintain a training
binder for each AFSC.

5.6. Copy of the MTP, as found in AFTR, for each work center. This will include the STS, 797s,
1098s, 623 II, and 623 III.

5.7. Copies of all QTPs and/or ISD checklist(s) used during orientation and/or location(s) of any
training plans/evaluation tools used to validate trainee qualifications.

5.8. Work center orientation checklist. In addition to the minimum requirements stated in AFI
36-2201, include timelines (milestones) for each task identified.

5.9. AF Form 623a sample entry of supervisor initial evaluation of trainee qualifications.
Minimum information required in the statement can be found in AFI 36-2201. This evaluation
must also include full review of the MTP for trainee’s duty position, revalidation of
qualification(s) and timelines (milestones) for items that require further validation and/or
training.

5.10. AF Form 623a sample entry of annual job description/performance standards review.




                                                  58
