DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 2A0X1S
Headquarters US Air Force                                                        Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                      1 October 2008




                              AFSC 2A0X1S

     AVIONICS TEST STATIONS AND
       AIRCRAFT COMPONENTS
             SPECIALIST




        CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
          AND TRAINING PLAN
         ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                     www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

            RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           CFETP 2A0X1S
Headquarters US Air Force                                                                Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                              1 October 2008

                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
           AVIONICS TEST STATIONS AND AIRCRAFT COMPONENTS SPECIALIST
                                   AFSC 2A0X1S
                                  Table of Contents
PART I                                          Page
Preface…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained……………………………………………………………………………………..2

Section A--General Information……………………………………………………………………………………. 5
    Purpose of the CFETP
    Use of the CFETP
    Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Progression and Information………………………………………………………………….. 6
    Specialty Description
    Skill/Career Progression
         Apprentice Level (3)
         Journeyman Level (5)
         Craftsman Level (7)
         Superintendent Level (9)
    Training Decisions
    Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities
    Career Field Path
    Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements……………………………………………………………………..13
    Purpose
    Training Requirements
         Apprentice Level (3)
         Journeyman Level (5)
         Craftsman Level (7)
         Superintendent Level (9)

Section D--Resource Constraints…………………………………………………………………………………….1

Section E—Transitional Training Guide……………………………………………………………………………16

PART II
 Section A, Course Objective……………………………………………………………………………………….16

  Section B, Support Material……………………………………………………………………………………….17

  Section C, Training Course Index…………………………………………………………………………………17

 Section D, MAJCOM Unique Requirements……………………………………………………………………...18

 Section E, Specialty Training Standard (STS)…………………………………………………………………….18

OPR: 365 TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ USAF/A4MM
Supersedes: CFETP2A0X1A, 1 July 2005; CFETP2A0X1AC1, 1 May 2006; CFETP2A0X1AC2, 10 Nov 2006; CFETP2A0X1AC3, 16 Feb
2007, 2A0X1B, 1 Jan 2006 and 2A0X1BC1, 1 Aug 2006
Pages: 148
          AVIONICS TEST STATIONS AND AIRCRAFT COMPONENTS SPECIALIST
                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                  AFSC 2A0X1S


PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support resources, and
minimum core task requirements for 2A0X1S, Avionics Test Stations and Aircraft Components
Specialist. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instill rigor in all aspects
of career field training. This CFETP supersedes 2A0X1A and 2A0X1B CFETP, information is available
at AF/A4MM web page:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-LG-AF-35
NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position qualification
training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage, and control
training. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective
and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to train today‟s
work force for tomorrow‟s jobs.

2.1 Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints to
accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies
transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2 Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training standards
supervisors will use to determine if airmen have satisfied training requirements. Section B identifies
available support materials, such as Qualification Training Package (QTP), which may be developed to
support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training course index that supervisors can use to
determine if resources are available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine
additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers
will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.
Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references
to support training; Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime
course/core task and correspondence course requirements.




                                                      1
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training - Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified in their Air Force
Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training
is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS) - A comprehensive task list that describes a particular
job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications. The tasks of
AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Bridge Course - A formal or informal course, which allows the individual to expand their knowledge in
another area of expertise.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) - A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose
document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical
growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable, to
eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget defensible.

Certification - A formal indication of an individual‟s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Certification Official - A person authorized by appropriate commander to determine an individual‟s
ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training - This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements and has
an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task - Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty. Only a percentage of critical tasks for each
system are listed as mandatory core tasks. This gives units needed flexibility to manage their workforce
training. Core tasks identified with */R are optional for ANG and AFRC.

Course Objective List (COL) - A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and
respective standards provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL
to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing and
Conducting Military Training Programs.

Course Training Standard (CTS) - A formal course document that identifies in board terms the training
members will receive in a specific course.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST) - A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training - Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.




                                                      2
Go/No Go Level - In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge and
experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without assistance, or not.

Field Technical Training (Type 4) - Special or regular on-site training conducted by a training
detachment (TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training - A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD) - A deliberate and orderly process for developing, validating,
and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge and skills essential
for successful job performance.

Maintenance Information System (MIS) - Systems and applications that support and enable
maintenance business processes. Used to document maintenance actions. Provides maintenance
supervisors with products to evaluate organizational effectiveness and to aid in decision-making processes
at all levels.

Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL) - Monitors overall maintenance and supply interface, resolves
supply support problems, and coordinates supply-related training needs.

Master Task Listing (MTL) - Document maintained within the workcenter that identifies all tasks
performed in a workcenter. This includes core, critical position qualification and wartime tasks. This
document can be automated.

Master Training Plan - A comprehensive workcenter training plan that may include MTLs QTPs,
AFJQS, CFETP, task breakdowns, commercial publications and any other document that supports
training.

Mobile Training Team (MTT) - Instructors, trainers, training aids and operational equipment that formal
schools send to bases or operating locations used to perform formal training.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR) - A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of
tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT) - Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to certify
personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Position Qualification Training - Training designed to qualify an airman in a specific position and is
accomplished after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training - Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced training courses, or
on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade.




                                                     3
Qualification Training (QT) - Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training
process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP) - An instructional course designed for use at the unit to qualify
or aid qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer
based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints - Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or equipment
that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS) - An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force Specialty in
terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know on the job. It serves as a
contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an
AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career Development Courses, and exportable courses.

Standard - An exact value, a physical entity, or abstract concept, established and defined by authority,
custom, or common consent, to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities.
Standards are used to establish practices or procedures and to evaluate results.

Supplemental Training - Formal, standardized training within an AFS that is in addition to required
initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly assigned equipment,
methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier - See Certification Official

Training Detachment (TD) - An AETC detachment that provides maintenance oriented technical
training, at an operational location, on specific systems and their aerospace ground equipment. A TD
aims to qualify personnel on new equipment or in new techniques and procedures, maintain proficiency
and increase skill and knowledge, acquaint personnel with specific systems, and keep personnel aware of
changing concepts and requirements.

Training Setting - The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job,
field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) - A forum, co-chaired by the AF Career Field Manager
and Training Pipeline Manager and AETC Training Pipeline Manager consisting of MAJCOM Air Force
Specialty Code (AFSC) functional managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training
personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.




                                                     4
SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force Career Field Manager
(AFCFM), MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors, and
trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training program. This plan
outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A0X1S should receive in order to develop and progress
throughout their career. This CFETP identifies initial skill, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and
proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry
into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is
conducted at various locations by AETC. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task
qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-
and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify
an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the job.
Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency training is additional
training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to
personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP
has several purposes, including:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training program.
Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual‟s career.

1.2. Identifies tasks and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses that are available in the specialty and identifies sources of training, and the
training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints, which impact full implementation of the desired career field
training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, Training Detachment
(TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II
of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining the
resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and
proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can satisfy these
identified requirements. MAJCOM developed training, to support this AFSC, must be identified for
inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available training resources.
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of
courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.



                                                       5
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The AETC training manager
for AFSC 2A0X1S will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC and MFM to ensure currency
and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and
coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will
eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Performs and manages avionics test station functions and activities.
Operates, inspects, maintains, programs, and calibrates computer and manually operated avionics test
equipment, support equipment (SE), and aircraft avionics systems components. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 119800.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.2.1. Avionics Test Stations and Aircraft Components Specialist Apprentice and Journeyman:
Analyzes performance and isolates malfunctions of avionics test equipment, SE, and aircraft components.
Performs operational tests on test equipment, SE, and aircraft components to determine condition, analyze
performance, and isolate malfunctions in the radar, sensors, communications, weapons control, electronic
warfare (EW), and flight control and engine control systems. Traces logic, schematic, test flow, and
wiring diagrams. Uses self-test and software functions, computer and manually operated avionics test
equipment, SE, and test measurement and diagnostic equipment to determine the scope of repair and
adjustment required. Inspects, maintains, programs, and calibrates avionics equipment, SE, and aircraft
components. Removes and replaces assembly components using hand tools, soldering devices, and
electronic instruments. Repairs amplifier and logic circuits; microwave equipment; servomechanisms;
radio frequency circuits; video displays; and power supply circuits. Loads computer programs. Aligns,
calibrates, and modifies avionics test equipment, SE, and aircraft components.
4.2.2. Avionics Test Stations and Aircraft Components Specialist Craftsman: Manages integrated
avionics activities and complies with directives, policies, and procedures. Complies with maintenance
standards. Initiates deficiency reports, maintenance analysis documents, technical data changes, and
equipment records. Interprets, establishes, and complies with training, security, and safety standards.
Ensures compliance with directives governing handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and
material. Records information on data collection forms and automated systems. Directs and controls
maintenance, calibration, and inspection of integrated avionics test stations and aircraft components.
Plans and organizes integrated avionics activities. Plans and organizes integrated avionics equipment
assembly, calibration, repair, modification, and maintenance activities. Plans physical layout of facilities,
and ensures SE and spare parts availability.
4.2.3. Maintenance Superintendent: Manages and directs maintenance functions and activities.
Included are areas of avionics sensors, communications and navigation, guidance and control, airborne
warning and control radar, inertial and radar navigation, airborne command post communication systems,
avionics test stations, electronic warfare (EW) systems, and avionics support equipment. Related DoD
Occupational Subgroup: 110200.




                                                     6
5. Career Skill Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop, manage and conduct an
effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will ensure each individual
receives viable training at appropriate points in their career. Use table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path in
conjunction with information below to manage career skill progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3-skill level): Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work with a
trainer to enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the Career Development Course, Task
Qualification Training and available exportable courses for continued advancement. Once task certified,
a trainee may perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for appointment as unit
trainers after completion of a formal trainer course.

5.2. Journeyman (5-skill level). Once upgraded to the 5-skill level, the journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and skill in
troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. Five-levels may be assigned job positions such as
quality assurance and various staff positions. After having 48 months in the Air Force, 5-levels will
attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) to enhance their Professional Military Education (PME) (this is
not tied to skill level). Five-levels will be considered for appointment as unit trainers. Individuals will
use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion testing. They should also consider continuing
their education toward a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7-skill level): A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions such as shift leader, element NCOIC, flight/section chief, and task certifier. They can also be
assigned to work in staff positions. Craftsmen should take courses to obtain added knowledge on
management of resources and personnel. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher
degree programs is encouraged. In addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals will complete the
Noncommissioned Officer Academy.

5.4. Superintendent (9-skill level): A 9-skill level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief,
production supervisor, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget,
manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education.
Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are also recommended.

6. Training Decisions: The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass
the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Avionics Test Station and Aircraft Components
Career Field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training
requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable training to reduce duplication of training and
eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were made by MAJCOM
Functional Managers and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) at the career field Utilization and Training
Workshop held at Sheppard AFB TX 12 March 2007.




                                                      7
6.1. Initial Skills: The working group was tasked with reviewing attachment 2, General Training
Requirements of the 2A0X1A/B/C/D career fields. The 2A0X1A/B career fields will be combined into
the 2A0X1S career field. This event was treated as a Lean Initiative with consideration taken for “value
added” and regulation driven requirements. Each line item was evaluated based on ability and method of
training, redundancy of documentation (IMDS, AF Form 55) and applicability across all shreds. Line
items relating to all shreds will remain in this area; items that were determined to be redundant or “no
value added” were deleted. The new “2A031S” initial skills course is estimated to be 65 days in length to
include the common blocks for active duty personnel and will be sufficient to satisfy all initial skills
training requirements.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training: The STS Core tasks were changed. The new CFETP 2A0X1S will
contain 146 5-skill level core tasks. The new 2A051S and 2A051T CDCs will consist of approximately
six volumes.

6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training. The STS Core tasks were changed. The new CFETP 2A0X1S
will contain 28 7-skill level core tasks. There is no longer a CraftsmanCourse requirement.

6.4 Continuation Training All Continuation Training will be accomplished with OJT.

7. Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities. Higher education and advanced
certification is a personal choice that is encouraged for the professional development of the entire Enlisted
Force. Listed below are some current opportunities:

7.1. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF occurs
upon completion of basic military training (BMT). CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate
of Applied Science Degree. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:
7.1.1. Degree Requirements: All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to
completing an associate degree, the 5-skill level must be awarded and the following requirements must be
met:

                                                                                                               Semester Hours
Technical Education ................................................................................................. 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ........................................................ 6
Physical Education ..................................................................................................... 4
General Education .................................................................................................... 15
Program Elective ...................................................................................................... 15
     Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
     Studies; or General Education
Total ......................................................................................................................... 64




                                                                              8
7.1.2. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical Core or
Technical Elective subjects and courses. Completion of the initial skills resident training at Sheppard
AFB satisfies all or part of the technical education requirement.
7.1.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses.

7.1.4. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic
Military Training.
7.1.5. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with the
definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.1.6. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects and courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable
technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog
for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.2. AETC Instructor. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing
an associate's degree. A degreed faculty is necessary for to maintain accreditation through the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools.

7.3. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification training,
consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors who
possess an associates degree or higher may be nominated by their school commander and commandant for
certification as an occupational instructor.

7.4. FAA Airframe and Power plant (A&P) Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance technicians
are eligible to pursue FAA A&P certification based on training and experience in accordance with Federal
Aviation Regulation Part 65. The DoD established the Joint Service Aviation Maintenance Technician
Certification Council (JSAMTCC) to standardize the eligibility and certification process for the military
and provide direction and resources necessary to fill the gaps within military training and experience.
Completing three A&P Specialty Training Courses, seven Computer Based Training modules, and OJT
requirements contained in a Qualification Training Package (QTP) will fill training and experience gaps.
CCAF manages the AF A&P Certification Program. Technicians may enroll in the program and begin
training once they have been awarded their 5-skill level. To learn more and enroll in the program, visit
CCAF‟s website at http://www.maxwell.af.mil/au/ccaf/student.htm. CCAF currently awards 30 Semester
hours for the FAA A&P certification and 18 Semester hours for the FAA Airframe or Power plant
certification.

7.5. Other Certification Programs. CCAF is actively pursuing other licensure and certification
opportunities related to specific career fields. To learn more about other certification opportunities visit
CCAF‟s website at http://www.maxwell.af.mil/au/ccaf/student.htm.




                                                      9
8. Career Field Path
NOTE: For the latest information go to MyEDP at:
https://rso.my.af.mil/afvecprod/myedp/Users/EdTr/edp_cdc.aspx

8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A0X1S Air Force Specialty.

                                         Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                        Grade Requirements
  Education and Training Requirements                  Rank       Average    Earliest  High Year Of Tenure
                                                                  Sew-On     Sew-On          (HYT)
  Basic Military Training School
  Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)          Amn       6 months
                                                       A1C       16 months
  Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                Amn       6 months
  - Minimum 15 months on-the-job training.             A1C       16 months
  - Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for           SrA        3 years      28 months             12 Years
    retrainees from the 5-skill level.
  - Complete all 5-skill level core tasks on one
    MDS.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  Airman Leadership School (ALS)
  - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service
    or be a SSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
    sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                       Trainer                                                    Certifier
  - Qualified and certified to perform the task to    - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and certified
    be trained.                                         to perform the task being certified
  - Must attend Air Force Training Course             - Attend Air Force Training Course
                                                      - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                        positions, units and/or work centers with specialized
                                                        training standardization and certification requirements.
  Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                  SSgt      7.5 years        3 years            20 Years
  - Minimum rank of SSgt.
  - Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
  - Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for
    retrainees from the 7-skill level.
  - Complete all 5- and 7-skill level core tasks on
    one mission design aircraft.
  - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
  - Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.
  Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)               TSgt      12.5 years      5 years             24 Years
  - Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
  - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
    sew-on (Active Duty Only).                         MSgt       16 years       8 years             26 Years




                                                         10
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                   SMSgt   19.2 years   11 years   28 Years
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  CMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
- A percentage of top non-select (for promotion
  to E-8) MSgts attend the SNCOA each year.
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)         CMSgt   21.5 years   14 years   30 Years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.




                                                   11
8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist:

Table 8.2. Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist
Requirements for Upgrade to:                                                                        Y N
Journeyman
- Has apprentice completed mandatory CDCs, if available?
- Has apprentice completed all appropriate 5-skill level core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has apprentice completed all other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor?
- Has apprentice completed minimum 15 months UGT (9 months for retrainees from the f-skill level) for
  award of 5-skill level?
- Has apprentice met mandatory requirements listed in specialty description, ECD and CFETP?
- Has apprentice been recommended by their supervisor?
Craftsman
- Has journeyman achieved the rank of SSgt?
- Has journeyman completed mandatory CDCs?
- Has journeyman completed all core tasks identified in the CFETP?
- Has journeyman completed all other duty position tasks identified by the supervisor?
- Has journeyman completed minimum 12 months UGT (6 months for retrainees from the 7-skill
  level) for award of 7-skill level?

TO: Squadron/CC

FROM: Squadron Training Manager

SUBJECT: Upgrade Trainee

Trainee is prepared to be upgraded and has completed all training requirements.


_______________________                             _______________________
    Training Manager                                       Supervisor




                                                   12
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level
in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each
skill level. The specific tasks and knowledge training requirements are identified in Part II, Section E,
Specialty Training Standard (STS) and Section A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training (3-Skill Level).
10.1.1. Specialty Qualification:
10.1.1.1. Knowledge: Knowledge is mandatory of: electrical theory and electronic fundamentals,
including solid-state, binary, digital, octal, and hexadecimal numbering systems; metrology principles;
Boolean algebra; computer logic, and programming principles and language; printed circuitry;
microwave, radar, and electronic warfare principles; microminiature solid state devices; operating
principles of avionics components supported by test stations; electrically actuated mechanical device
theory; operating principles of basic measuring and testing devices; interpreting schematic, logic, data
flow, and wiring diagrams; interpreting programming tables and technical publications; using, caring for,
and applying special, standard, and common hand tools; interpreting testing, measuring, and referencing
devices; concepts and application of applicable maintenance directives; Air Force supply procedures; and
use and disposal of hazardous waste and material.
10.1.1.2. Education: Completion of high school is desirable with courses in physics, algebra,
trigonometry, and computer principles.
10.1.1.3. Training: For award of AFSC 2A031S, completion of the applicable suffix basic avionics test
station and components course is mandatory.
10.1.1.4. Experience: There is no experience necessary for entry into AFSC 2A031S.
10.1.1.5. Other: For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFMAN 48-123 is
mandatory. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award and
retention of AFSCs 2A031S, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an interim
NACLC has been granted according to AFI 31-501.
10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The initial skills course, J3ABR2A031S048A, Avionics Test
Station and Aircraft Components Apprentice will provide the required knowledge and qualifications.
Initial skills training encompasses Avionics Test Station and Aircraft Components system theory and
operation, electrical and electronic principles, system components, component removal and installation,
introduction to maintenance concepts, general flight line maintenance practices, use of technical
publications, maintenance documentation, and support equipment familiarization and use.
10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training and Electronic Principles,
Airmen are assigned to the Training Wing for completion of Course J3ABR2A031S048A, Avionics Test
Station and Aircraft Components Apprentice. Completion of this course will result in award of the 3-skill
level.




                                                    13
10.2. Journeyman Level Training (5-Skill Level):
10.2.1. Specialty Qualification:
10.2.1.1. Knowledge: In addition to the 3-skill level qualifications, a 5-skill level must possess the
knowledge and skills necessary to maintain Avionics Test Station and Aircraft Components and
associated subsystems. An individual must be task qualified on inspecting Avionics Test Station and
Aircraft Components, troubleshooting and correcting system malfunctions, and repairing and replacing
system components. Journeymen perform operational checks, component repair, and use and
maintenance of test and support equipment. Individuals can apply the proper handling, use, and disposal
of hazardous waste and materials IAW federal and local environmental standards.
10.2.1.2. Education: There are no formal education requirements for upgrade to 2A051S.
10.2.1.3. Training: Requirements for the Journeyman level require completion of the 5-skill level CDC
and completion of the core tasks specified in the STS.
10.2.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFS 2A031S, also, experience in functions
such as identifying performance and isolating malfunctions encountered with avionic components; using
and repairing avionic electrical, electronic, and mechanical equipment; or aligning and calibrating avionic
test stations and SE and completion of all 5-skill level core tasks and designated critical tasks on one
MDS aircraft identified in the STS is mandatory.
10.2.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFMAN 48-123 is
mandatory. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award and
retention of AFSCs 2A051S, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. The 5-skill level CDC provides the career knowledge training
required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the core tasks
identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base, and
provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.
10.2.3. Implementation. The units utilizing this STS, exportable courses, and CDCs perform training to
the 5-skill level. Upgrade to the 5-skill level requires completion of the 2A051S and 2A051T CDCs and
15 months upgrade training.
10.2.4. Supervisor/Training Manager Input. Utilize Table 8.2 Base/Unit Education and Training
Checklist as applicable to facilitate upgrade actions.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training (7-Skill Level):
10.3.1. Specialty Qualification.
10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 5-skill level qualifications, an individual must possess advanced
skills and knowledge of theory, concepts, principles and application of Avionics Test Station and Aircraft
Components. The 7-skill level must be able to supervise and train personnel to maintain Avionics Test
Station and Aircraft Components. They must be able to plan, schedule, and organize maintenance to
ensure effective utilization of available resources. Qualification is required on advanced repair,
inspection, troubleshooting, and diagnostic techniques. Historical documentation analysis is also required
for all 7-skill levels.
10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level.
10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of CDC 2AX7X, the core tasks specified in the STS and the in-resident
7-skill level course (if applicable), at Sheppard AFB TX is mandatory for upgrade to AFSC 2A071S.




                                                    14
10.3.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A051S. Also, experience performing
or supervising functions such as installing, inspecting, repairing, or overhauling avionic test stations and
SE. Completion of all required 7-skill level core tasks as identified in the STS.
10.3.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFMAN 48-123 is
mandatory. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award and
retention of AFSCs 2A071S, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. 7-skilllevel upgrade training will be completed/ conducted by
certified trainers using AF core tasks and unit/MAJCOM specific courses. The 7-skill level CDC and
resident courses (if applicable) are written to provide advanced system and management knowledge, and
troubleshooting skills. The 2AX7X is required to be posted in the workcenter Master Task List (MTL).
10.3.3. Supervisor/Training Manager Input. Utilize Table 8.2 Base/Unit Education and Training
Checklist as applicable to facilitate upgrade actions.
10.3.4. Implementation. The units utilizing the STS and CDCs perform training to the 7-skill level.
Upgrade to the 7-skill level requires completion of CDC 2AX7X , CDCs 2A051S and 2A051T,
completion of all core tasks and designated critical tasks, 12 months upgrade training, completion of the
(Craftsman) Course (if applicable), and promotion to E-5.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Skill Level).
10.4.1. Specialty Qualification.
10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: avionics and electronic computers, EW systems, data
processing systems, and radar and inertial electronic principles; electronic and mechanical principles
applying to guidance and control and power and motion transmission; infrared; lasers; cryogenics; low
light level television and optical systems; altitude stabilization theory, data flow analysis, torquing
amplifiers, accelerometers, and servo mechanisms; testing, measuring, and reference standard devices;
digital processes, computer logic, and microelectronics of integrated circuits; supply procedures,
personnel management, and administrative techniques; concepts and application of maintenance
directives; interpreting schematic, logic, and wiring diagrams, blueprints, and technical orders; and
budgeting, modification, and acquisition processes.
10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional requirements beyond those defined for the apprentice level.
10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A090, promotion to SMSgt is mandatory
10.4.1.4. Experience. For award of AFSC 2A090, qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A071X is
mandatory. Also, experience is mandatory managing or directing functions such as communication
systems, guidance and control, avionics test stations, avionics sensors, radar, EW, or navigation.
10.4.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFMAN 48-123 is
mandatory. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award and
retention of AFSCs 2A090, completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and
Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. The Senior NCO Academy and unit OJT will be used for
training.
10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-skill level will be awarded upon promotion to SMSgt.

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

11. Purpose: This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimum
and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and

                                                    15
manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what
effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required,
office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum,
reviewed and updated annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training. No resource constraints identified.
13. Journeyman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.
14. Craftsman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

SECTION E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE- There are no transitional requirements this
area is reserved.

PART II

Section A - Course Objective List

1. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical school is
measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the student so he or she
knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each task. Each objective is
comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard that states what is expected of the student for each task.
The condition is the setting in which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The
behavior is the observable portion of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the
level of performance that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained (i.e. “with no
more than two instructor assists”)

2. Objective Measurement. Each objective uses letter codes(s) to identify how it is measured. All
objectives using the PC code indicate a progress check is used to measure subject or task knowledge. W
indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure the subject or task knowledge at the end of
a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject or task knowledge progress check and a separate
measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test.

3. Objective Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for performance
objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual progress check checklist.
The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student‟s progress, on each task. Instructor
assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or
part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all
PCs prior to taking the written test.

4. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a particular
task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item the objective
supports. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section A of this CFETP for an explanation of the
proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the „2b‟ proficiency level which means the
students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially
proficient). The student can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. For tasks that are
taught to the „3c‟ proficiency level, students can do all parts of the task and only require a spot check on



                                                     16
completed work (competent). The student can also identify why and when a task must be done and why
each step is needed.

5. Course Objective Listing. A detailed listing of initial skills or craftsman course objectives may be
obtained by submitting a written request to 365 TRS/TRR, 511 9th Ave STE 1, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-
2338. SECTION E - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

Section B - Support Material

6. There are currently no support material requirements.

Section C - Training Course Index

7. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the 2A0X1S Systems
Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.
For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR at:

       365 TRS/TRR
       511 9th Ave STE 1
       Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2338
       DSN 736-7891

8. Air Force In-Resident Courses. (load all applicable courses)

 COURSE NO.                 COURSE TITLE                      LOCATION          USER
 J3ABR2A031S048A            Avionics Test Stations and        Sheppard AFB      AF
                            Aircraft Components

9. AFIADL. http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

COURSE NO.         COURSE TITLE                                                   USER
CDC 2A051S         Avionic Test Station and Aircraft Component Journeyman         AF
CDC 2A051T         Avionic Test Station and Aircraft Component Journeyman         AF
CDC 2AX7X          Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                                AF


       365 TRS/TRR
       609 9th Ave STE 202
       Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2338
       DSN 736-3268

10. Exportable Courses. None
For further information on exportable courses, contact the OPRs at:



                                                   17
         367 TRSS                                               362 TRS
         6058 Aspen Ave                                         613 10th Ave
         Hill AFB UT 84056-5805                                 Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2352
         DSN 777-7830/8741                                      DSN 736-5206


The Hill AFB course catalog can be ordered from DSN 777-0160, FAX 777-0897, or
www.hill.af.mil/367trss/findex/htm

For further information contact the OPR at:
        365 TRS
        609 9th Ave, Rm 135
        Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2352
        DSN 736-7891
        https://etca.randolph.af.mil/

Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from or are under development by, 367 TRS/TRSS at
Hill AFB UT and 982 MXS/TSU at Sheppard AFB TX.

For further information contact the OPRs at:
     367 TRSS                                                   982 MXS/TSU
     6058 Aspen Ave                                             912 I Ave Ste 4
     Hill AFB UT 84056-5805                                     Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2334
     DSN 777-7830/8741                                          DSN 736-3001
http://www.hill.af.mil/367trss/index1.htm      https://webm.sheppard.af.mil/982trg/default.asp?header=982MX&bodypage=HOME


11. Training Detachment (TD) Courses. For further information on the TD courses, contact the OPRs
at:
      372 TRS
      912 I Ave Suite 3
      Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2361
      DSN 736-4801

Section D - MAJCOM Unique Requirements.
Currently only Air Combat Command has a MAJCOM mandatory course list (MMCL). MAJCOMs
change mandatory course requirements occasionally. Up-to-date ACC requirements can be obtained at
URL https://lg.acc.af.mil/lgq/lgqt/NEWLGQTHOME.htm . Refer to the HQ ACC MMCL for additional
information.

Section E – SPECIALITY TRAINING STANDARD

12. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) for classes beginning 1 October 2008.

13. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201 and 36-2232, this STS:



                                                       18
13.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill
level. An asterisk (*) before the number indicates a wartime course objective.

13.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements. Core tasks
identified with an *R are optional for the AFRC and the ANG. MAJCOM Functional Managers,
commanders, and supervisors may designate additional critical tasks as necessary. When designated,
certify these critical tasks using normal core task certification procedures. As a minimum, certification on
all AFCFM directed core tasks applicable to the specialty must be completed for skill level upgrade.
Exemptions:
13.2.1. Core tasks that are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not required for
upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training)
13.2.2. For units with more than one mission design (e.g. A-10) aircraft, upgrade trainees need only
complete core tasks on a single mission design. MFMs, unit commanders, and/or supervisors may require
trainees to complete core task training on additional mission design aircraft, if desired. If some of these
core tasks involve training in another unit on base, trainees must still complete all core tasks relevant to at
least one mission design aircraft. Flightline-assigned personnel must complete backshop core tasks and
vice versa. All units are bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate core task
trainees from other units.
13.2.3. Units that use the GO81 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete Core
Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) Computer Based Training (CBT) core tasks. Units that use
CAMS do not need to complete GO81 CBT core task. This requirement will remain in effect until GO81
and CAMS are converted to the Maintenance Information System (MIS).

13.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. Use CAMS/GO81 to document technician qualifications, if available. Task
certification must show a certification or completed date.

13.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency
to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the task/knowledge and the career
knowledge provided by the correspondence course

13.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the
level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

13.6. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training
when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. For
OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. "Go" means the individual can
perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct
procedures. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:
13.6.1 Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201. Automated
records, utilizing MIS or CAMS/G081 reflecting this STS is highly encouraged. Use of Part II and
attachments one and two of this CFETP are mandatory in individual training records. Use of Part I of this
CFETP. Use of at least one of attachments 3 through 9 is required.
13.6.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs are
replaced by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this CFETP STS is mandatory.

                                                      19
Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current qualifications.
Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

13.7. STS. A guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Occupational Measurement
Squadron, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample
knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for
promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog.
Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program. WAPS is not applicable to
the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

14. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to the AETC
Training Manager at 365 TRS/TRR, 609 9th Avenue, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2335, DSN 736-7891.
Please reference specific STS paragraphs.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE



OFFICIAL                                    KEVIN J. SULLIVAN, Lt General, USAF
                                            DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support




                                                   20
ATTACHMENT 11
1. Proficiency Code Key (Mandatory)
2. General Training Requirements (Mandatory)
3. A-10 Training Requirements
4. B-1 Training Requirements
5. B-2 Training Requirements
6. C-17 Training Requirements
7. E-3 & E-8 Training Requirements
8. F-15 Training Requirements
9. F-16 Training Requirements
10. Electronic Principles Training Requirements (Mandatory)
11. 2AX7X 7-Level CDC Requirements (Mandatory)




                                           21
                                             This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                       Initials (Written)              SSAN (Last 4 Only)


Printed Name of Certifying Official and Written Initials
N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I


N/I                                                                      N/I



                                                  QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale      Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                       1       Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                               Limited)
          Task                         2       Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                      3       Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                        4       Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                               (Highly Proficient)
                                       a       Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)

         *Task                         b       Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
       Knowledge                       c       Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                               (Operating Principles)
          Levels                       d       Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                       A       Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)

     **Subject                         B       Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
    Knowledge                          C       Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
      Levels                           D       Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

*R This mark is used to identify Core tasks for Air Force Reserve only

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.




                                                                                                                    Attachment 1


                                                                      22
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

2. ATTACHMENT 2, GENERAL
  TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
2.1 CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
    TR: AFECD
2.1.1 Progression in career ladder                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.1.2 Duties of AFSC                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
2.2 SECURITY TR: DODR 5200-1;
    AFSSI 4100; AFIs 31-401, 21-109, 31-
    101 Vol 1, 10-1101
2.2.1 Communications Security
      (COMSEC)
2.2.1.1 Security violations prevention                                                                                        A          B         -              -
2.2.1.2 Critical Information Listing                                                                                          -          -         -              -
2.2.1.3 Identify security precautions                                                                                         A          B         -              -
2.2.2 Physical Security TR: AFI 31-101V1,
      DODR 5200-8
2.2.2.1 Classified equipment                                                                                                  A          B         -              -
2.2.2.2 Classified information                                                                                                A          B         -              -
2.2.2.3 Command, Control,                                                                                                     -          -         -              -
        Communications, and Computer
        (C4) Systems Security
2.2.2.4 Use system security classification                                                                                     -         -         -              -
        guides TR: Applicable weapons
        security guides
2.2.2.5 Operational Security (OPSEC)                                                                                          A          -         -              -
        vulnerabilities of AFSC TR: AFI
        10-701
2.2.2.6 Destruction of Classified                                                                                              -         -         -              -
        Information
2.3 SUPERVISION TR: AFI 21-1001,
    AFPD 21-1, AFI 23-100 series and 22-
    101, TO 31-175
2.3.1 Perform Initial Evaluation TR: 36-                                                                                       -         -         -              -
      2108; AFI 36-2201V3
2.3.2 Orient New Personnel TR: AFMAN                                                                                           -         -         -              -
      36-2108; AFIs 36-2201, 36-2103
2.4 TRAINING TR: AFI 36-2201
2.4.1 Evaluate Personnel to Determine                                                                                          -         -         -              -
      Need for Training TR: AFI 36-
      2201V3
2.4.2 Maintain Training Records TR: AFI                                                                                        -         -         -              -
      36-2201V3
2.5 AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL
    SAFETY AND HEALTH (AFOSH)
    PROGRAM
2.5.1 Hazards and AFOSH STDS of AFSC                                                                                          A          B         -              -
      2A0X1 TR: AFIND 17, AFIs 91-301,
      91-
2.5.2 Work Areas Cleanliness and Safety                                                                                        -         -         -              -
      TR: AFOSH STD 91-66

                                                                  23
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

2.5.3 Safety practices when working with
      or in the vicinity of
2.5.3.1 Electrical power / High Voltage                                                                                       A          B         -              -
        TR: AFOSH STD 91-66; TOs 31-1-
        141-1, 33-1-32; 00-25-232
2.5.3.2 Compressed Gases TR: AFOSH                                                                                            A          B         -              -
        STD 91-501; TOs 00- 25-234, 42B5-
        1-2, 42B7-3-1-1
2.5.3.3 Hand and Power Tools TR: TOs                                                                                          A          B         -              -
        00-25-234, 32-1-101, 32-1-151, 32-
        1-2
2.5.3.4 Radioactive Materials TR: AFOSH                                                                                        -         B         -              -
        STD 48-9, TO 31-1-141-9
2.5.3.5 High Intensity Sound TR: AFOSH                                                                                         -         B         -              -
        STD 48-19
2.5.3.6 Lifting Devices TR: AFOSH STD                                                                                         A          B         -              -
        91-46
2.5.3.7 Lasers Safety TR: AFOSH STD 48-                                                                                       A          B         -              -
        139; ANSI Z136.1-XXXX, TOs 31-
        1-141-1, 31-1-141-3
2.5.3.8 RF Radiation                                                                                                          A          B         -              -
2.5.3.9 Hazards of RF Energy TR: AFOSH                                                                                        A          B         -              -
      STD 48-9, TO 31-141-9
2.5.3.10 Report RF Overexposure                                                                                                -        A          -              -
2.5.3.11 Cathode-ray Tube (CRT)                                                                                                -        -          -              -
2.6 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS &
    WASTE TR: AFI 32-7042, AFJMAN
    23-209, AFOSH STDs 48-8, 91-68, 161-
    21, 161-21-1G, 161-21-1W, AFPAM
    32-7043, TO 42C-1-12
2.6.1 Review MSDS                                                                                                             A          -         -              -
2.6.2 Identification                                                                                                          A          -         -              -
2.6.3 Handling                                                                                                                A          -         -              -
2.6.4 Storage and Labeling                                                                                                    A          -         -              -
2.6.5 Disposal                                                                                                                A          -         -              -
2.6.6 Waste Minimization                                                                                                      A          -         -              -
2.7 TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS TR:
    AFPD 21-3; TOs 0-1-01, 00-5-1, 00-5-2,
    00-5-3, 00-5-16, 00-5-17, 00-25-06-2-2,
    51-1-06-1, 80-0-1
2.7.1 Standard Publications TR: AFI 33-                                                                                        -        A          -              -
      360V1
2.7.2 USAF TO System Management                                                                                               -         -          -              -
2.7.3 USAF TO System Function and                                                                                             A         A          -              -
      Application TR: TOs 00-5-1, 00-5-15,
      00-5-18




                                                                  24
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

2.7.4 Computer Program Identification                                                                                         A          B         -              -
      Number (CPIN) System/Automated
      Computer Identification Number
      (ACPIN) System TR: TOs 00-5-1, 00-
      5-16, 00-5-17, 00-5-18, AFI-10-703
      and applicable data
2.7.5 Time Compliance TO                                                                                                       -         B         -              -
2.7.6 Use Methods and Procedures TOs                                                                                           -         B         -              -
      TR: TO 00-Series
2.7.7 TO Deficiency Reporting Procedures                                                                                       -         B         -              -
      TR: TO 00-5-1
2.7.8 Use TOs to Perform: TR: Applicable
      TOs
2.7.8.1 Maintenance                                                                                                           2b         B         -              -
2.7.8.2 Part Number Research                                                                                                  2b         -         -              -
2.7.8.3 Use Schematics/Wiring/Block                                                                                           2b         -         -              -
        Diagrams and Logic trees
2.8 AIR FORCE SUPPLY DISCIPLINE
    TR: AFI 21-101
2.8.1 Supply Discipline TR: AFMAN 23-                                                                                         A          B         -              -
      110, Vol 2, Pt 13
2.8.2 Use Supply Cross References TR:                                                                                         2b         -         -              -
      USAF S-2A-1, Use Federal Logistics
      Data (FEDLOG), D043
2.9 SUPPLY PROCEDURES
2.9.1 Asset Requisition/Turn-In TR:                                                                                            -         B         -              -
      AFMAN 23-110, Vol 2, Pt 13, Chapt-
      3, Attach -3A-3
2.9.2 AF Form 2005                                                                                                            2b         -         -              -
2.9.3 Complete Condition Tags                                                                                                 2b         -         -              -
2.9.4 Product Improvement
2.9.4.1 Deficiency Reports TR: TO 00-                                                                                          -         B         -              -
        35D-54, AFSCM 21-578, Vol 2
2.9.4.2 Input/Review DR Data in DREAMS                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2.9.4.3 Warranty TR: AFM 64-110                                                                                                -         B         -              -
2.10 MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
    AND INSPECTION TR: AFIs 21-101,
    38-101
2.10.1 Duties and Responsibilities of Shop                                                                                     -         -         -              -
      Personnel
2.10.2 Levels of Maintenance TR: AFI 21-                                                                                      A          B         -              -
      101
2.10.3 Basic Functions and responsibilities                                                                                   A          B         -              -
      within the Maintenance Organization
      TR: AFIs 21-101, 38-101
2.10.4 Logistics and Resource Management
2.10.4.1 Logistics Management TR: AFIs                                                                                         -         -         -              -
        21-101
2.10.4.2 Resource Management TR: AFI                                                                                           -         -         -              -
        65-601, Vol 1

                                                                  25
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

2.10.5 Status Reports TR: AFI 21-103                                                                                           -         -         -              -
2.10.6 Maintenance Incident Investigation                                                                                      -         -         -              -
     and Prevention TR: AFIs 91-202, 91-
     204, 91 -206
2.10.7 Mobility TR: AFH 10-416; AFIs                                                                                           -         -         -              -
     10-215, 10-403; AFMAN 10-100
2.10.8 Maintenance, Inspection Systems                                                                                         -         -         -              -
     and Forms TR: TO 00-20-1, 00-20-14
2.10.8.1 Inspections systems                                                                                                  A          B         -              -
2.10.8.2 Use maintenance forms TR: TO
       00-20-1
2.10.8.2.1 AFTO Form 350                                                                                                      2b         -         -              -
2.10.8.2.2 AFTO Form 349                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
2.10.8.2.3 AFTO Form 244                                                                                                      2b         -         -              -
2.10.8.2.4 AFTO Form 95                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.10.8.2.5 Calibration Forms                                                                                                  2b         B         -              -
2.10.8.2.6 Document Automated                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
          Forms
2.11 JOB DATA DOCUMENTATION
   (JDD) (IMDS)
2.11.1 Historical Records                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
2.11.2 Status Reports                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
2.11.3 Configuration Management TR:                                                                                            -         -         -              -
     AFI 21-101
2.12 MAINTENANCE DATA
   DOCUMENTATION (MDD)
2.12.1 Fundamentals and Application of                                                                                        A          B         -              -
     MDD TR: TO 00-20-2
2.12.2 Reliability, Availability,
     Maintainability, Logistics Engineering
     Support for Electronic Attack Pods,
     Avionics Pods and Integrated Systems
     (RAMPOD) TR: TOs 33D7-3-326-8-
     1, 12P3-2A-198-1: CPIN
2.12.2.1 RAMPOD Principles                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2.12.2.2 Maintenance Transactions                                                                                              -         -         -              -
2.12.2.3 Maintenance Inquiries                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
2.12.3 INTEGRATED MAINTENANCE
   DATA SYSTEM (IMDS)
2.12.3.1 IMDS Principles                                                                                                      A          B         -              -
2.12.3.2 Maintenance Transactions                                                                                             2b         B         -              -
2.12.3.3 Maintenance Inquiries                                                                                                2b         -         -              -
2.12.3.4 Supply Transactions                                                                                                  2b         B         -              -
2.12.3.5 Management/Supervision/                                                                                               -         -         -              -
       Training Transactions
2.12.3.6 Complete Integrated MX Data                                                                                           -         -         -              -
     Systems (IMDS) CBT
2.13 METROLOGY PRINCIPILES
2.13.1 Use Calibration Correction Charts                                                                                       -         -         -              -
2.13.2 Calibrate Torque Devices                                                                                                -         -         -              -

                                                                  26
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

2.13.3 Portable Automatic Test Equipment
     Calibrator (PATEC)
2.13.3.1 PATEC Characteristics                                                                                                A          B         -              -
2.13.3.2 Operation                                                                                                            2b         -         -              -
2.14 GENERAL MAINTENANCE
   PRACTICES
2.14.1 Corrosion Control TR: TOs 1-1-                                                                                         A          -         -              -
     689, 1-1-691, 00-20-1, 00-25-234
2.14.1.1 Clean Equipment                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
2.14.1.2 Lubricate Equipment                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
2.14.1.3 Inspect Equipment                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2.14.1.4 Pack/Unpack LRUs                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
2.14.2 Perform Safety Wiring TR: TO 00-                                                                                        -         -         -              -
     25-234
2.14.3 Clean Optical Surfaces TR: IAW                                                                                         2b         -         -              -
     System Level TO
2.14.4 Cable Repair TR: TO 00-25-234
2.14.4.1 Perform Cable Lacing                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
2.14.4.2 Perform Video Splicing                                                                                                -         -         -              -
2.14.4.3 Perform Connector Potting                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.14.5 Coaxial cable
2.14.5.1 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
2.14.5.2 Fabricate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.14.6 Multipin connectors/cables
2.14.6.1 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
2.14.6.2 Fabricate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.14.7 Tools TR: TO AFI 21-101
2.14.7.1 Inventory and Inspect Composite                                                                                      2b         -         -              -
     Tool Kits (CTKs) TR: AFI 21-101
2.14.7.2 Use Tool Accounting System                                                                                            -        A          -              -
     (TAS) TR: AFI 21-101
2.14.7.3 Use Common Hand Tools TR:                                                                                            2b         -         -              -
     AFOSHSTD 91-501, TO 32-1-101
2.14.7.4 Use Torque wrenches TR: TO                                                                                           2b         B         -              -
     32B14-3-1-101, Applicable Systems
     TOs
2.14.8 Electrostatic Sensitive Device (ESD)
     TR: DoD HDBK 263, DoD STD 1686,
     MIL STD-129, TO 00-25-234
2.14.8.1 Electrostatic Sensitive Device                                                                                       A          B         -              -
       (ESD) Principles
2.14.8.2 Perform Electrostatic Sensitive                                                                                      2b         -         -              -
       Device (ESD) Procedures
2.15 DIRECT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
2.15.1 Test Equipment Care and Handling
     TR: TO 00-85B-3, 1-1A-15, 31-1-141-
     14, 42C-1-1
2.15.1.1 Prepare for Shipment                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
2.15.1.2 Prepare for Storage                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
2.15.1.3 Prepare for Climate Conditions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
                                                                  27
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

2.16 DATA TRANSFER EQUIPMENT
2.16.1 Data transfer principles                                                                                                -         B         -              -
2.16.2 Operate data transfer equipment                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2.17 ELECTRONIC WARFARE
    COMBAT FUNDAMENTALS
2.17.1 Principles                                                                                                             A          -         -              -
2.17.2 Component types                                                                                                        A          -         -              -
2.18 RF FUNDAMENTALS
2.18.1 Principles                                                                                                             A          B         -              -
2.18.2 Component Types                                                                                                        A          B         -              -
2.18.3 Isolate/Identify RF Malfunctions                                                                                       A          B         -              -
2.19 TEST STATION PRINCIPLES TR:
    Applicable Test Station TO
2.19.1 Power Distribution                                                                                                     A          B         -              -
2.19.2 Emergency Shutdown                                                                                                     -          -         -              -
2.19.3 Stimulus Devices                                                                                                       A          B         -              -
2.19.4 Measurement Devices                                                                                                    A          B         -              -
2.19.5 Computer Control                                                                                                       A          B         -              -
2.20 AUTOMATIC TEST EQUIPMENT
    (ATE)
2.20.1 Test Software
2.20.1.1 Confidence Tests (CONF)                                                                                              -          -         -              -
2.20.1.2 Diagnostic Tests (DIAG)                                                                                              -          -         -              -
2.20.1.3 Alignment Tests (ALIN)                                                                                               -          -         -              -
2.20.1.4 Calibration Tests (CALS)                                                                                             -          -         -              -
2.20.1.5 Interface Test Adapter (ITA)                                                                                         -          -         -              -
2.20.1.6 Line Replaceable Unit (LRU)                                                                                          -          -         -              -
2.20.2 Bus Communications Standard                                                                                            A          B         -              -
2.20.3 Signal Routing                                                                                                         A          B         -              -
2.20.4 SOFTWARE SYSTEM
2.20.4.1 Theory of system software
       functions TR: Use B-1 Specific TOs
       TR: Use B-1 Specific TOs
2.20.4.1.1 Control & Support (C&S)
         Software
2.20.4.1.1.1 Test Operating System (TOS)                                                                                       -         -         -              -
2.20.4.1.1.2 Test Executive (TEX)                                                                                              -         -         -              -
2.20.4.1.1.3 On-Line Compiler (OLC)                                                                                            -         -         -              -
2.20.4.1.1.4 File Manager (FMX)                                                                                                -         -         -              -
2.20.4.1.1.5 Change Analysis (CAP)                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.20.4.1.2 Utility programs
2.20.4.1.2.1 Find Align                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.20.4.1.2.2 CALS Mods                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2. 20.4.2 Software procedures
2. 20.4.2.1 Execute software commands
2. 20.4.2.1.1 Control & Support Software
2. 20.4.2.1.1.1 TOS                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
2. 20.4.2.1.1.2 TEX                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
2. 20.4.2.1.1.3 OLC                                                                                                            -         -         -              -

                                                                  28
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

2. 20.4.2.1.1.4 FMX                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
2. 20.4.2.1.1.5 CAP                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
2. 20.4.2.1.2 Test Software
2. 20.4.2.1.2.1 ATE                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
2. 20.4.2.1.2.2 ITA                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
2. 20.4.2.1.2.3 LRU                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
2. 20.4.2.1.3 Utility programs
2. 20.4.2.1.3.1 Find Align                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2. 20.4.2.1.3.2 CALS Mods                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
2. 20.4.2.2 Use software commands to                                                                                           -         -         -              -
         isolate faults
2.21 TEST LANGUAGES TR: TOs 33D7-
    38-111-1-3, 33D7-38-111-18-1, 33D7-
    38-111-82; NA-84-110H
2.21.1 Non-test statement Analysis
2.21.1.1 Data declaration                                                                                                     2b        A          -              -
2.21.1.2 Calculate/compare                                                                                                    2b        A          -              -
2.21.1.3 Decision/branching                                                                                                   2b        A          -              -
2.21.1.4 Input/output/delay                                                                                                   2b        A          -              -
2.21.2 Test statement Analysis
2.21.2.1 Analog stimulus                                                                                                      2b        A          -              -
2.21.2.2 Analog measurement                                                                                                   2b        A          -              -
2.21.2.3 Digital test                                                                                                         2b        A          -              -
2.21.3 Protocol Theory                                                                                                        2b        A          -              -
2.21.4 System procedures                                                                                                      2b        A          -              -
2.21.5 Program structure                                                                                                      2b        A          -              -
2.22 USE TEST EQUIPMENT TR:
      Applicable equipment TO(s)/manuals
2.22.1 Universal counter                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
2.22.2 Power meter                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.22.3 Frequency counter                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
2.22.4 Scalar network analyzer                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
2.22.5 Pulse generator                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2.22.6 Sweep oscillator                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.22.7 Radio Frequency radiation monitor                                                                                       -         -         -              -
2.22.8 Bus network analyzer                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
2.22.9 Spectrum analyzer                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
2.23 AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS THEORY
2.23.1 Radar Systems                                                                                                          A          B         -              -
2.23.2 Navigation Systems
2.23.2.1 Inertial Navigation (INS)                                                                                            A         B          -              -
2.23.2.2 Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN)                                                                                      A         B          -              -
2.23.2.3 Global Positioning System (GPS)                                                                                      A         B          -              -
2.23.2.4 Identification Friend or Foe (IFF)                                                                                   A         B          -              -
2.23.2.5 Visual Omni Range/Instrument                                                                                         -         A          -              -
       Landing System/Microwave Landing
       System (VOR/ILS/MLS)
2.23.2.6 Radio/RADAR Altimeter                                                                                                A         B          -              -
2.23.2.7 Compass Systems                                                                                                      -         A          -              -

                                                                  29
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

2.23.3 Flight Control Systems                                                                                                 A          B         -              -
2.23.4 Weapons/Cargo delivery systems                                                                                         A          B         -              -
2.23.5 Communication Systems
2.23.5.1 UHF                                                                                                                  A          B         -              -
2.23.5.2 VHF                                                                                                                  A          B         -              -
2.23.5.3 HF                                                                                                                   A          B         -              -
2.23.5.4 SATCOM
2.23.5.4.1 Dedicated                                                                                                          A          B         -              -
2.23.5.4.2 Demand Assigned Multiple                                                                                           A          B         -              -
         Access (DAMA)
2.23.5.5 Interphone/PA System                                                                                                 A          B         -              -
2.23.6 Air Data Systems                                                                                                       A          B         -              -
2.23.7 Electronic Counter Measures                                                                                            A          B         -              -
2.23.8 Flight Instruments and Displays                                                                                        A          B         -              -
2.23.9 Bussing and Multiplexing Systems                                                                                       -          B         -              -
2.23.10 Avionics Integration and Control                                                                                      A          B         -              -
     Systems
2.23.11 Propulsion Management Systems
2.23.11.1 Theory                                                                                                              A          -         -              -
2.23.11.2 Digital Engine Functional Tester
       (DEFT)
2.23.11.2.1 Theory                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.23.11.2.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.23.11.2.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.23.11.3 Digital Electronic Engine
       Controller (DEEC)TR: TO 6J3-4-
       117-2
2.23.11.3.1 Theory                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.23.11.3.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.23.11.3.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.23.11.4 Engine Diagnostic Unit (EDU)
         TR: TO 5E1-2-15-2
2.23.11.4.1 Theory                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.23.11.4.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.23.11.4.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.23.11.5 Engine Control Throttle Quadrant
       Assembly TR: TOs 2JA8-24-2,
       2JA8-24-12
2.23.11.5.1 Theory                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.23.11.5.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.23.11.5.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
2.23.11.6 Field Reprogramming Set

2.23.11.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
2.23.11.6.2 Operate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
2.24 COMMON MANUAL SYSTEMS
2.24.1Global Positioning System (GPS)
      TR: TOs 12R5-2ARN151-12, 12R5-
      2ARN151-32
2.24.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                   -         B         -              -
                                                                  30
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

2.24.1.2 GPS RCV R2332
2.24.1.2.1 Bench Check                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2.24.1.2.2 Alignment                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
2.24.1.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2.24.1.3 GPS Avionics Electronic Unit
       (AE-1)
2.24.1.3.1 Bench Check                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2.24.1.3.2 Alignment                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
2.24.1.3.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2.24.1.4 GPS Test Set
2.24.1.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
2.24.1.4.2 Inspect/Operate                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2.24.2 Communication Systems
2.24.2.1 UHF
2.24.2.1.1 UHF system (AN/ARC164(C))
2.24.2.1.1.1 Radio Test Set(AN/ARM-
         173)/(TS-4317-1 IFR)TR: TO
         33D7-50-159 series
2.24.2.1.1.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.1.2 Operate                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.1.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.2 UHF R/T TR: TOs 12R2-
         2ARC164-Series
2.24.2.1.1.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.2.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                    2b         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.2.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.3 Radio Set Control TR: TOs
         12R2-2ARC164-32, 12R2-
         2ARC164-92
2.24.2.1.1.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.3.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.3.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.4 Channel Frequency Indicator
         TR: TO 12R2-2ARC164-32
2.24.2.1.1.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.4.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2.24.2.1.1.4.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2.24.2.2 VHF
2.24.2.2.1 Perform maintenance                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
2.24.2.2.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2.24.2.3 HF
2.24.2.3.1 Perform maintenance                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
2.24.2.3.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
2.24.3 Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN)
           Mount TR: TO 12R5-4-106-8-3
2.24.3.1 Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
2.24.3.2 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
2.24.4 Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN)
           R/T TR: TO 12R5-4-106-8-3
2.24.4.1 Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
                                                                  31
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                      GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

2.24.4.2 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                   -         -         -              -




                                                                  32
                                                                                                                            Attachment 2
                                          A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

3. ATTACHMENT 3, A-10 TRAINING
  REQUIREMENTS
3.1 A-10 INTERMEDIATE AUTOMATIC
    TEST STATION (IATS) TR: TO 33D7-
    38-182 series
3.1.1 IATS Theory of operation
3.1.1.1 Power subsystem                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.1.1.2 Computer subsystem                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
3.1.1.3 Stimulus/Measurement subsystem                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.1.1.4 Switching subsystem                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.1.1.5 Pressure subsystem                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
3.1.2 Perform required inspections
3.1.2.1 Daily                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.1.2.2 30 day                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.1.2.3 180 day                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.2.4 360 day                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.1.2.5 1000 hour operational check on                                                                                         -         -         -              -
        Pressure Supply
3.1.3 Perform calibration                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
3.1.4 Isolate/repair Malfunctions
3.1.4.1 Power subsystem                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.1.4.2 Computer subsystem                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
3.1.4.3 Stimulus/Measurement subsystem                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.1.4.4 Switching subsystem                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.1.4.5 Pressure subsystem                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
3.1.5 IATS LRU Maintenance
3.1.5.1 Central Air Data Computer (CADC)
        TR: TOs 5F5-4-29 series
3.1.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.1.5.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.1.5.1.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.1.5.2 Control Display Unit (CDU) TR:
        TOs 5N29-13 series
3.1.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.1.5.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.1.5.2.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.1.5.3 Master Bus Controller (MBC) TR:
        TOs 5N6-4-14 series
3.1.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.1.5.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.1.5.3.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.1.5.4 Inertial Navigation Unit (INU) TR:
        TOs 5N1-4-15 series
3.1.5.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.1.5.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.1.5.4.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.1.5.5 HUD Control Unit (CU) TR: TOs
        11F47-13 series
3.1.5.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.1.5.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
                                                                  33
                                                                                                                            Attachment 3
                                          A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

3.1.5.5.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.1.5.6 Turbine Engine Monitoring System
        (TEMS) Electronic Processor Unit
        (CP-1481) TR: TOs 5E18-2 series
3.1.5.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.1.5.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.1.5.6.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.1.5.7 TEMS Data Collection Unit (MM-
        718) TR: TOs 33D7-61-95 series
3.1.5.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.1.5.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.1.5.7.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.1.5.8 TEMS Diagnostic Display Unit
        (DDU) TR: TOs33D7-61-96 series
3.1.5.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.1.5.8.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.1.5.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.1.5.9 TEMS Umbilical Display Unit
        (UDU) TR: TOs 5E19-2 series
3.1.5.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.1.5.9.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.1.5.9.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2 MANUAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT/
    LRU MAINTENANCE
3.2.1 Direction Finder Group Test Set
      (970V-1) TR: TO 33D2-8-363-1
3.2.1.1 Operate                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.1.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.2.2 Direction Finder Antenna (DF-301)
      TR: TO 12R5-4-154-1
3.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.2.2.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.2.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.3 Antenna Test Set (AN/ARM-115) TR:
      TO 33D7-35-35-1
3.2.3.1 Operate                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.3.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.4 FM Antenna (437S-1C) TR: TO
      12R2-4-95-1
3.2.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.2.4.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.4.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.5 FM Signal Data Comparator TR: TO
      12R2-2ARC186-2
3.2.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
3.2.5.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.5.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.6 Miscellaneous Comm Systems

                                                                  34
                                                                                                                            Attachment 3
                                          A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

3.2.6.1 Intercommunication panel TR: TOs
        12R2-2AIC18-2, 12R2-AIC25-2
3.2.6.1.1 Test                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.2.6.1.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7 Weapons Control Systems
3.2.7.1 HUD System LRU Test Set TR:
        TOs 33D2-46-5 series
3.2.7.1.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.2.7.1.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.7.2 HUD Boresight Fixture TR: TO
        33D7-27-14-1
3.2.7.2.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.2.7.2.2 Align                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.7.3 TV Monitor Test Set TR: TO 33D7-
        15-20-1
3.2.7.3.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.2.7.3.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.4 Weapons Control Test Set (AN-
        ASM184B) TR: TO 33D5-12-187-1
3.2.7.4.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.2.7.4.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.4.3 Calibrate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.7.5 Projection Unit TR: TO 11F47-13-7
        series
3.2.7.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.2.7.5.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.5.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.6 Television Monitor (Hartman) TR:
        TO 112S6-4-35 series
3.2.7.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.2.7.6.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.6.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.7 Television Monitor (Cardion) TR:
        TO 12S6-4-32 series
3.2.7.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.2.7.7.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.7.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.8 TV Control Unit (Hartman) TR: TO
        12S6-4-35 series
3.2.7.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.2.7.8.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.8.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.9 TV Control Unit (Cardion) TR: TO
        12S6-4-32 series
3.2.7.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.2.7.9.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.7.9.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.8 Stability Augmentation System (SAS)

                                                                  35
                                                                                                                            Attachment 3
                                          A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

3.2.8.1 SAS Computer Test Set TR: TO
        33D2-33-4-1
3.2.8.1.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.2.8.1.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.8.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.8.2 Rate Table TR: TO 33D3-10-36-1
3.2.8.2.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.2.8.2.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.8.2.3 Calibrate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.8.3 SAS Control Panel TR: TO 5A13-5-
        17-3
3.2.8.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.2.8.3.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.8.3.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.9 Fuel Quantity Indication System
3.2.9.1 Fuel Quantity Test Set TR: TO
        33D2-3-88-1
3.2.9.1.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.2.9.1.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.9.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
3.2.9.2 Fuel Quantity Intermediate Device
        TR: TO 5L3-2-4-3
3.2.9.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.2.9.2.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.9.2.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.9.3 Fuel Quantity Indicator TR: TO
        5L6-3-67-3
3.2.9.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
3.2.9.3.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
3.2.10 Air data and Instrument Systems
3.2.10.1 Pneumatic Test Set (TTU-205)
        TR: TO 33D7-3-60-31
3.2.10.1.1 Operate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
3.2.10.1.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.2.10.2 Altitude Encoder Test Set (TTU-
        229) TR: TO 33D7-3-101-11
3.2.10.2.1 Operate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
3.2.10.2.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.10.3 HSI Test Set TR: 33D2-6-218-1
3.2.10.3.1 Operate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
3.2.10.3.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.10.4 Universal Attitude Indicator Test
        Set TR: TO 33D3-17-9-1
3.2.10.4.1 Operate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
3.2.10.4.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.10.5 Alpha-Mach Computer Test Set
        TR: TO 33D7-10-105-1
3.2.10.5.1 Operate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
3.2.10.5.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.10.5.3 Calibrate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
                                                                  36
                                                                                                                            Attachment 3
                                          A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

3.2.10.6 Standby Attitude Indicator Test Set
       TR: TO 33D2-6-225-1
3.2.10.6.1 Operate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
3.2.10.6.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.10.6.3 Calibrate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2.10.7 Altimeter TR: TO 5F3-3-28-2
3.2.10.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.2.10.7.2 Perform Maintenance Testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.10.7.3 Adjust                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.2.10.8 Vertical Velocity Indicator TR: TO
       5F8-9-12-3
3.2.10.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.2.10.8.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.10.9 Airspeed Indicator TR: TO 5F8-2-
       65-3
3.2.10.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.2.10.9.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.10.10 Triple Airspeed Switch TR: TO
       8S2-9-13-3
3.2.10.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.10.10.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.2.10.11 Standby Attitude Indicator (SAI)
       TR: TO 5F8-3-34-2
3.2.10.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.10.11.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.2.10.12 Alpha-Mach Computer TR: TO
       5F5-9-4-3
3.2.10.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.10.12.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.2.10.12.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.2.10.13 Attitude Director Indicator (ADI)
       TR: TO 5F8-3-24-3
3.2.10.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.10.13.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.2.10.14 Horizontal Situation Indicator
       (HSI) TR: TO 5F8-16-5-2
3.2.10.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.10.14.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
3.2.11 Heading Attitude Reference System
     (HARS)
3.2.11.1 HARS Test Set TR: TO 33D3-9-
       165-1
3.2.11.1.1 Operate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
3.2.11.1.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.11.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2.11.2 Scorsby Test Stand TR: TO 33D2-
       8-14-171
3.2.11.2.1 Operate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
3.2.11.2.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -

                                                                  37
                                                                                                                            Attachment 3
                                          A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

3.2.11.3 3-Axis Table TR: TO 33D3-10-32-
       1
3.2.11.3.1 Operate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
3.2.11.3.2 Adjust                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
3.2.11.4 Displacement Gyro TR: TO 5A1-
       9-4-2
3.2.11.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.2.11.4.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.11.4.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.11.5 Electronic Control Amplifier TR:
       TO 5A1-9-4-2
3.2.11.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.2.11.5.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.11.5.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.11.6 Compass System Controller TR:
       TO 5A1-9-4-2
3.2.11.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.2.11.6.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.11.6.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.12 Flight Director System
3.2.12.1 Flight Director Computer Test Set
       TR: TO 33D7-3-178-1
3.2.12.1.1 Operate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
3.2.12.1.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.12.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2.12.2 Flight Director Computer TR: TO
       5F5-8-7-2
3.2.12.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
3.2.12.2.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.12.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.13 A-10 General Avionics Components
3.2.13.1 Navigation Mode Select Panel TR:
       TO 8C21-18-2
3.2.13.1.1 Test                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.13.1.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.13.2 Navigation Mode Select Relay
       Box TR: TO 8R3-172-2
3.2.13.2.1 Test                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.13.2.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.13.3 Avionics Relay Box TR: TO 8R3-
       157-2
3.2.13.3.1 Test                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.13.4 Antenna Select Control Panel
       Assembly TR: TO 8C21-2-2
3.2.13.4.1 Test                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.13.4.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.13.5 "G" Meter TR: TO 5F2-28-32
3.2.13.5.1 Test                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.13.6 Intercommunication Panel TR: TO
       12R2-2AIC18-2
                                                                  38
                                                                                                                            Attachment 3
                                          A-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

3.2.13.6.1 Test                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
3.2.13.6.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
3.2.13.7 Magnetic Azimuth Detector
       Simulator TR: TO 33D2-8-368-1
3.2.13.7.1 Calibrate                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
3.2.13.7.2 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -




                                                                  39
                                                                                                                            Attachment 3
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4. ATTACHMENT 4, B-1 TRAINING
  REQUIREMENTS
4.1 B-1 GENERAL MAINTENANCE
    PROCEDURES
4.1.1 Basic Interface Test Adapter                                                                                             -         -         -              -
      Isolate/Repair Malfunctions
4.1.2 Perform periodic inspections
4.1.2.1 30 day                                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.1.2.2 180 day                                           *                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.1.2.3 360 day                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.1.3 Perform nuclear hardness                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
      maintenance and inspections TR:
      Applicable LRU TO
4.2 B-1 COMMON TEST STATION
    COMPONENTS, DIGITAL (DIG) TR:
    TOs 33D7-3-256-1, 33D7-3-256-8-1,
    33D7-33-194-1,
4.2.1 Theory of operation
4.2.1.1 Power and Control (P&C) Module
4.2.1.1.1 Control system
4.2.1.1.1.1 Disk Storage Units                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.2.1.1.1.2 Computer System                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.2.1.1.2 Power distribution system                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.2.1.1.3 Cooling system                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.2.1.2 Sub-Instrument Module (SIM)
4.2.1.2.1 Power distribution system                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.2.1.2.2 Digital subsystem                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.2.1.2.3 Stimulus subsystem                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.2.1.2.4 Measurement subsystem                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.2.1.2.5 Switching subsystem                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.2.1.3 Self Test Adapter (STA)                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.2.1.4 Wire run list and wiring diagrams                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.2.2 Operate test station and associated
      equipment to:
4.2.2.1 Load/Execute Application Programs                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.2.2.2 Perform Turn-on procedure                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.2.2.3 Perform Standby procedure                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.2.2.4 Perform Shutdown procedure                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.2.2.5 Perform CONF                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.2.6 Perform DIAG                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.2.7 Perform ALIN                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.2.2.8 Perform Calibration using:
4.2.2.8.1 CALS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.2.2.8.2 PATEC                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.2.2.9 Perform adjustments                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.2.2.10 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.2.2.10.1 Power & Control Module
4.2.2.10.1.1 Power Distribution                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.2.2.10.1.2 LRU Power/switching                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.2.2.10.1.3 Test Station Power                                                                                                -         -         -              -
                                                                  40
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.2.2.10.1.4 Cooling system                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.2.2.10.1.5 Control system                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.2.2.10.2 Sub-Instrument Module
4.2.2.10.2.1 Digital Subsystem                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.2.2.10.2.2 Measurement Subsystem                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.2.2.10.2.3 Stimulus Subsystem                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.2.2.10.2.4 Switching Subsystem                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.2.2.10.2.5 Power Distribution                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.3 B-1 DIGITAL DEFENSIVE
    AUTOMATIC TEST EQUIPMENT
    (ATE) AUGMENTATION
    EQUIPMENT (DAAE) TR: TOs: 33D7-
    13-100-1, 33D7-13-100-8-1, 33D7-50-
    1028-1
4.3.1 Theory of operation
4.3.1.1 Power distribution                                                                                                     -        A          -              -
4.3.1.2 Test Module Adapter (TMA)                                                                                              -        A          -              -
        Functional Test Group (FTG)
4.3.1.3 Avionics Control Unit (ACU) FTG                                                                                        -        A          -              -
4.3.1.4 Control Interface Unit (CIU) FTG                                                                                       -        A          -              -
4.3.1.5 Advance Tracker Unit (ATU) FTG                                                                                         -        A          -              -
4.3.1.6 Emitter Simulator Processor (ESP)                                                                                      -        A          -              -
        FTG
4.3.1.7 Jammer Logic A, Jammer Logic B,                                                                                        -        A          -              -
        Receiver Threshold Control (ABC)
        FTG
4.3.1.8 Direction Finding Encoder (DFE)                                                                                        -        A          -              -
        FTG
4.3.1.9 Test Adapter Group (TAG)                                                                                               -        A          -              -
4.3.1.10 Cooling System                                                                                                        -        A          -              -
4.3.2 Wire run list and wiring diagrams                                                                                        -        A          -              -
4.3.3 Peculiar ATLAS                                                                                                           -        A          -              -
4.3.4 Operate test station and associated
      equipment to:
4.3.4.1 Perform power-up/power-down                                                                                            -         -         -              -
        procedures
4.3.4.2 Perform CONF                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.3.4.3 Perform DIAG                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.3.4.4 Perform alignment                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.3.4.5 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.4 Advanced Digital Test Station (ADTS)
    TR: TO 33D7-24-36-1
4.4.1 Theory of Operations
4.4.1.1 Power Control and Distribution                                                                                         -         B         -              -
        Subsystem
4.4.1.2 UUT Power Subsystem                                                                                                    -         B         -              -
4.4.1.3 Digital Subsystem                                                                                                      -         B         -              -
4.4.1.4 Analog Subsystem                                                                                                       -         B         -              -
4.4.1.5 Computer Subsystem                                                                                                     -         B         -              -
4.4.1.6 Control Software Subsystem                                                                                             -         B         -              -
                                                                  41
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.4.1.7 Loads Subsystem                                                                                                        -         B         -              -
4.4.1.8 Interface Subsystem                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.4.2 Perform Power-up/Power-down                 *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
      Procedures
4.4.3 Perform Emergency Shutdown                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.4.4 Perform Confidence Test                     *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
4.4.5 Perform Interactive Test                    *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
4.4.6 Functional Test
4.4.6.1 Perform Functional Verification           *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
        Test (FVT)
4.4.7 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions
4.4.7.1 Power Control and Distribution                                                                                         -         -         -              -
        Subsystem
4.4.7.2 UUT Power Subsystem                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.4.7.3 Digital Subsystem                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.4.7.4 Analog Subsystem                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.4.7.5 Computer Subsystem                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.4.7.6 Control Software Subsystem                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.4.7.7 Loads Subsystem                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.4.7.8 Interface Subsystem                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.4.8 Perform Preventative Maintenance            *                                                                            -         -         -              -
      Procedures
4.4.9 Perform Calibrations Procedures             *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5 B-1 DIG/ADTS LRU/TEST
    PROGRAM SET (TPS)
    MAINTENANCE
4.5.1 10 Channel Proximity Switch
      Electronic Unit TR: TOs 8S-1-112,
      8S-1-118-1, 33D7-61-98-1
4.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.5.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.5.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.1.4 Calibrate TPS                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.5.2 20 channel Proximity Switch
      Electronic Unit TR: TOs 8S-1-122, 8S-
      1-128-1, 33D7-50-1164-1
4.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.5.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.5.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.2.4 Calibrate TPS                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.5.3 Advance Tracking Unit (ATU) TR:
      TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-272, 12P3-
      2ALQ161-278-1, 33D7-50-1238-1
4.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.5.3.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.5.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.5.3.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.5.3.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
                                                                  42
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.5.4 Windshield Ice/Air Temperature
      Controller TR: TOs 8D1-12-27-2,
      8D1-12-27-8-1, 33D7-50-1162-1
4.5.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.5.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.5.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.5 Aural Tone Generator TR: TOs 8D15-
      10-8-2, 8D15-10-8-8-1, 33D7-50-810-
      1
4.5.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.5.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.5.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.6 Bomb Navigation Auxiliary Control
      TR: TOs 11B12-6-10-2, 11B12-6-10-
      8-1, 33D3-4-157-1
4.5.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.5.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.5.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.7 Bomb Navigation Control TR: TOs
      11B12-6-9-2, 11B12-6-9-8-1, 33D3-4-
      157-1
4.5.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.5.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.5.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.8 C and D Power Supply TR: TOs
      11B12-30-3-2, 11B12-30-3-8-1, 33D3-
      4-157-1
4.5.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.5.8.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.5.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.9 CITS Control and Display Panel
      (CCD) TR: TOs 5A13-5-21-2, 5A13-
      5-21-8-1, 33D7-50-783-1
4.5.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.5.9.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.5.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.10 Control Interface Unit (CIU) TR:
      TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-252, 12P3-
      ALQ161-258-1,33D7-50-1236-1
4.5.10.1 Theory of operation
4.5.10.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.10.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.10.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.10.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.5.10.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.10.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.11 Coolant Temperature Controller TR:
      TOs 15A5-2-27-2, 15A5-2-27-8-1,
      33D7-50-835-1
4.5.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
                                                                  43
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.5.11.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.11.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.12 Crew Aft Air Temperature
     Controller TR: TOs 15A1-3-43-2,
     15A1-3-43-8-1, 33D7-50-837-1
4.5.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.12.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.13 Direction Finding (DF) Encoder TR:
     TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-362, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-368-1, 33D7-50-1239-1
4.5.13.1 Theory of operation
4.5.13.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.13.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.13.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.13.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.5.13.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.13.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.14 Digital Fuel Tank Quantity Select
     Indicator
4.5.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.14.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.14.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.15 Defensive System Operator (DSO)
     Power Panel TR: TOs 11B10-25-7-2,
     11B10-25-7-8-1, 33D3-4-157-1
4.5.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.15.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.15.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.16 Electrical Multiplexing (EMUX)
     CITS Interface Box TR: TOs 5F6-6-4-
     2, 5F6-6-4-8-1, 33D7-50-1024-1
4.5.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.16.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.16.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.17 Engine Instrument Signal
     Conditioner TR: TOs 5E1-2-13-2,
     5E1-2-13-8-1, 33D7-50-1163-1
4.5.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.17.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.17.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.18 Fuel Center of Gravity Management
     System (FCGMS) Center of Gravity
     and Total Fuel Indicator TR: TOs 5L1-
     3-12-2, 5L1-3-12-8-1, 33D7-50-1025-
     1
4.5.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.18.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.18.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -


                                                                  44
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.5.19 FCGMS Intermediate Device TR:
     TOs 5L13-2-26-2, 5L13-2-26-8-1,
     33D7-50-786-1
4.5.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.19.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.19.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.19.4 Calibrate TPS                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.5.19.5 Load/Verify OFP                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.5.20 Fill Controller and Fuel Quantity
     Indicator
4.5.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.20.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.20.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.21 Gyro Stabilization System (GSS)
     Electronic Compensator Amplifier
4.5.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.21.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.21.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.22 Hinge Moment Limiter Controller
     TR: TOs 5A9-8-9-2, 5A9-8-9-8-1,
     33D7-50-784-1
4.5.22.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.22.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.22.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.23 Hydraulic Pressure Signal
     Conditioner TR: TOs 33C2-86-2,
     33C2-86-8-1, 33D7-5-879-1
4.5.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.23.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.23.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.24 Individual Fuel Tank Quantity
     Indicator TR: TOs 5L6-3-92-2, 5L6-3-
     92-8-1, 33D7-50-874-1
4.5.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.24.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.24.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.25 Integrated Keyer Control (IKB) TR:
     TOs 11B10-25-8-2, 11B10-25-8-8-1,
     33D3-4-157-1
4.5.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.25.2 Operational check                        *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.5.25.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.26 Jammer Logic A (JLA)TR: TOs
     12P3-2ALQ161-232, 12P3-2ALQ161-
     238-1, 33D7-50-1234-1
4.5.26.1 Theory of operation
4.5.26.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.26.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.26.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.26.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
                                                                  45
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.5.26.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.26.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.27 Jammer Logic B (JLB) TR: TOs
     12P3-2ALQ161-242, 12P3-2ALQ161-
     248-1, 33D7-50-1235-1
4.5.27.1 Theory of operation
4.5.27.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.27.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.27.2 Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.27.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.5.27.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.27.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.28 Radar Altimeter Control Display TR:
     TOs 11B89-2-3-2, 11B89-2-3-8-1,
     33D3-4-157-1
4.5.28.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.28.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.28.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.29 Radar Set Control TR: TOs 11B12-
     29-4-2, 11B12-29-4-8-1, 33D3-4-157-
     1
4.5.29.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.29.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.29.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.30 Receiver Threshold Control (RTC)
     TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-262, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-268-1, 33D7-50-1237-1
4.5.30.1 Theory of operation
4.5.30.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.30.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.30.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.30.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.5.30.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.30.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.5.31 Radio Frequency Surveillance/
     Electronic Countermeasure
     (RFS/ECM) Control Panel TR: TOs
     12P3-4-86-2, 12P3-4-86-8-1, 33D3-4-
     157-1
4.5.31.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.31.2 Operational check                                                                                                    2b         -         -              -
4.5.31.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.32 Surface Positioning Signal
     Conditioner TR: TOs 5F22-29-2,
     5F22-29-8-1, 33D7-50-803-1
4.5.32.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.32.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.32.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -



                                                                  46
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.5.33 TF Radar (TFR) Control TR: TOs
      11B12-25-3-2, 11B12-25-3-8-1,
      33D3-4-157-1
4.5.33.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.33.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.33.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.34 Thermal Management Controller
      TR: TOs 15A8-3-22-2, 15A8-3-22-8-1,
      33D7-50-836-1
4.5.34.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.34.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.34.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.5.35 Tracking Handle TR: TOs 11B12-8-
      5-2, 11B12-8-5-8-1, 33D3-4-157-1
4.5.35.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.5.35.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.5.35.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.6 B-1 DIGITAL ANALOG VIDEO
    (DAV) TEST STATION TR: TOs
    33A1-5-486-1, 33D7-
4.6.1 Theory of operation
4.6.1.1 Video/Pneumatic Module                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.6.1.2 5.6 KHz Power Source Module                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.6.2 Wire run list and wiring diagrams                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.6.3 Peculiar ATLAS                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.6.4 Operate test station and associated
      equipment to:
4.6.4.1 Perform Turn-on Procedure                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.6.4.2 Perform Standby Procedure                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.6.4.3 Perform Shutdown Procedure                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.6.4.4 Perform CONF                              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.6.4.5 Perform DIAG                              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.6.4.6 Perform ALIN                              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.6.4.7 Calibration Tests
4.6.4.7.1 CALS                                            *                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.6.4.7.2 Portable Automatic Test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
         Equipment Calibration (PATEC)
         ITA/Software
4.6.4.8 Perform adjustments                       *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.6.4.9 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.6.4.9.1 Video/Pneumatic Module                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.6.4.9.2 5.6 KHz Power Source Module                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.6.4.10 Calibrate 5.6KHz Power Source                                                                                         -         -         -              -
        Module
4.7 B-1 DAV/ADTS LRU/TPS
    MAINTENANCE




                                                                  47
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.7.1 Automatic Flight Control System
      (AFCS)/Surface Movement Control
      System (SMCS) Logic Controller TR:
      TOs 5A9-8-7-2, 5A9-8-7-8-1, 33D7-
      50-788-1
4.7.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.7.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.7.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.7.2 AFCS/Trim Controller TR: TOs 5A9-
      8-11-2, 5A9-8-11-8-1, 33D7-50-820-1
4.7.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.7.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.7.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.7.3 Airspeed Mach Number Indicator TR:
      TOs 5F8-2-73-3, 5F8-2-73-8-1, 33D7-
      50-812-1
4.7.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.7.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.7.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.7.4 Altitude-Vertical Velocity Indicator
      (AVVI) TR: TOs 5N8-11-3-2, 5N8-11-
      3-8-1, 33D7-50-811-1
4.7.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.7.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.7.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.7.5 Antenna Memory Module
4.7.5.1 Theory of operation
4.7.5.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.5.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.7.5.3 Reprogram
4.7.5.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.5.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.6 Avionics Computer Control (ACC)
      TR: TOs 11B10-25-5-2, 11B10-25-5-
      8-1, 33D7-50-1113-1
4.7.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.7.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.7.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.7.7 Beam Steering Controller TR: TOs
      12P1-4-35-2, 12P1-4-35-8-1, 33D7-
      50-1206-1
4.7.7.1 Theory of operation
4.7.7.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.7.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.7.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.7.7.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.7.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -

                                                                  48
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.7.8 Central Air Data Computer (CADC)
      TR: TOs 5F5-4-35-2, 5F5-4-35-8-1,
      33D7-50-809-1
4.7.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.7.8.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.7.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.7.9 Central Power Supply TR: TOs 12P3-
      2ALQ161-162, 12P3-2ALQ161-158-1,
      33D7-50-1315-1
4.7.9.1 Theory of operation
4.7.9.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.9.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.9.2 Operational check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.7.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.7.9.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.9.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.7.10 CITS Data Acquisition Unit (DAU)
      TR: TOs 5F22-32-2, 5F22-32-8-1,
      33D7-50-1264-1
4.7.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.10.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.10.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.11 CITS Data Conversion Unit (DCU)
      TR: TOs 5F22-30-2, 5F22-30-8-1,
      33D7-50-871-1
4.7.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.11.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.11.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.12 Countermeasure (CM) Dispense
      Control TR: TOs 12P3-4-87-2, 12P3-
      4-87-8-1, 33D7-13-101-1
4.7.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.12.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.13 Constant Speed Drive (CSD) TR:
      TOs 35CA17-19-2, 35CA-17-19-8-1
4.7.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.13.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.13.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.14 Conventional Station Logic Unit
      (SLU) TR: TOs 11B47-12-5-2,
      11B47-12-5-8-1, 33D7-61-103-1
4.7.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.14.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.14.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.15 Core RPM and Nozzle Indicator TR:
      TOs 5L6-2-97-2, 5L6-2-97-8-1, 33D7-
      50-813-1
4.7.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.15.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
                                                                  49
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.7.15.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.16 Digital Computer (DC) TR: TOs
     11B10-7-9-2, 11B10-7-9-8-1, 33D7-3-
     273-1
4.7.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.16.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.16.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.17 Terrain Following (TF) TR: TOs
     5A8-21-3-8-1, 33D7-50-1177-1
4.7.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.17.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.17.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.18 Electronic Beamformer Unit (EBU)
     Bands 6, 7, 8 TR: TOs 12P3-
     2ALQ161-312, 12P3-2ALQ161-318-1,
     33D7-50-1306-1
4.7.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.18.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.18.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.19 Electronic Controller Secondary
     Power System (SPS) TR: TOs 8D3-3-
     3-2, 8D3-3-3-8-1, 33D7-50-1077-1
4.7.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.19.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.19.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.20 Electronic Display Unit (EDU) TR:
     TOs 11B10-7-10-2, 11B10-7-10-8-1,
     33D7-77-65-1
4.7.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.20.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.20.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.21 Electronic Marker Generator (EMG)
     TR: TOs 11B10-25-6, 11B10-25-6-8-
     1, 33D7-50-1244-1
4.7.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.21.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.21.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.22 Wheel Well Power Supply TR: TOs
     12P3-2ALQ161-172, 12P3-2ALQ161-
     158-1, 33D7-50-1316-1
4.7.22.1 Theory of operation
4.7.22.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.22.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.22.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.22.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.7.22.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.22.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.23 Electronic Signal Amplifier (ESA)
     TR: TOs 12P1-4-40-2, 12P1-4-40-8-1,
     33D7-50-1501-1
                                                                  50
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.7.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.23.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.23.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.24 Electrical Multiplexing (EMUX)
     Controller TR: TOs 5F27-2-2, 5F27-2-
     8-1, 33D7-50-827-1
4.7.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.24.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.24.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.24.4 Load/Verify OFP                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.7.25 EMUX Digital Remote Terminal
     (EMUX/DRT) TR: TOs 5A9-8-8-2,
     5A9-8-8-8-1, 33D7-50-825-1
4.7.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.25.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.25.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.26 Engine Fuel Flow Indicator TR: TOs
     5L6-2-67-2, 5L6-2-67-8-1, 33D7-50-
     1023-1
4.7.26.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.26.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.26.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.27 Engine Power Level Indicator TR:
     TOs 5L6-2-67-2, 5L6-2-67-8-2, 33D7-
     50-816-1
4.7.27.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.27.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.27.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.28 Engine Temperature Indicator TR:
     TOs 5L6-2-67-2, 5L6-2-67-8-5, 33D7-
     50-888-1
4.7.28.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.28.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.28.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.29 Electrical Power generation System
     (EPGS) Generator Control Unit (GCU)
     TR: TOs 8C3-5-4-2, 8C3-5-4-8-1,
     8C7-2-53-1, 33D7-50-1608-1
4.7.29.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.29.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.29.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.30 Fan RPM Indicator TR: TOs 5L6-2-
     67-2, 5L6-2-67-8-3, 33D7-50-818-1
4.7.30.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.30.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.30.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.31 Flap/Slat Controller TR: TOs 5A9-
     8-12-2, 5A9-8-12-8-1, 33D7-50-819-1
4.7.31.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.31.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
                                                                  51
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.7.31.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.32 Flight Director Computer Monitor
     (FDCM) TR: TOs 5N5-13-20-2, 5N13-
     13-20-8-1, 33D7-50-1026-1
4.7.32.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.32.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.32.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.33 Flight Instruments Signal
     Conditioner (FISC) TR: TOs 5F22-26-
     2, 5F22-26-8-1, 33D7-50-782-1
4.7.33.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.33.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.33.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.34 GSS Electronic Control Amplifier
     TR: TOs 5N2-3-12-2, 5N2-3-12-8-1,
     33D7-50-826-1
4.7.34.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.34.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.34.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.35 Hydraulic Fluid Temperature Signal
     Conditioner TR: TOs 15A8-5-83-2,
     15A8-5-83-8-1, 33D7-50-1178-1
4.7.35.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.35.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.35.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.36 Hydraulic Reservoir Fluid Quantity
     Signal Conditioner TR: TOs 5F22-27-
     2, 5F22-27-8-1, 33D7-50-824-1
4.7.36.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.36.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.36.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.36.4 Calibrate TPS                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.7.37 Main Aircraft System Integration
     Panel (SIP) TR: TOs 8C21-35-2,
     8C21-35-8-1, 33D7-50-1292-1
4.7.37.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.37.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.37.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.38 Main Flight Station Caution Panel
     TR: TOs 8D10-7-16-2, 8D10-7-16-8-1,
     33D7-50-890-1
4.7.38.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.38.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.38.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.39 Memory Storage Unit (MSU) TR:
     TOs 11B10-25-4-2, 11B10-25-4-8-1,
     33D7-50-1112-1
4.7.39.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.39.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.39.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
                                                                  52
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.7.40 Multifunction Display Indicator
     (MFD) TR: TOs 11B21-5-4-2, 11B21-
     5-4-28-1, 33D7-77-66-1
4.7.40.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.40.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.40.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.41 Oil Pressure and Quantity Indicator
     TR: TOs 5L6-3-97-2, 5L6-3-97-8-1,
     33D7-50-817-1
4.7.41.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.41.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.41.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.42 Radar Data Terminal/ Signal Data
     Converter (RDT/SDC)TR: TOs
     11B13-4-11-2, 11B13-4-11-8-1,33D7-
     17-75-1
4.7.42.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.42.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.42.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.43 Radar Target Indicator (RTI) TR:
     TOs 12P1-4-29-2, 12P1-4-29-8-1,
     33D7-44-258-1
4.7.43.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.43.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.43.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.44 Radar Video-Signal Processor
     (RVSP) TR: TOs 12P1-4-34-2, 12P1-
     4-34-8-1, 33D7-44-257-1
4.7.44.1 Theory of operation
4.7.44.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.44.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.44.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.44.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.7.44.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.44.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.45 Rotary Launcher Electronic Control
     Amplifier TR: TOs 8C3-16-14-2,
     8C3-16-14-4
4.7.45.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.45.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.45.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.46 Stability and Control Augmentation
     System (SCAS) Controller TR: TOs
     5A9-8-10-2, 5A9-8-10-8-1, 33D7-50-
     804-1
4.7.46.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.46.2 Operational check                        *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.7.46.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -



                                                                  53
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.7.47 Sector Power Supply TR: TOs
     12P3-2ALQ161-152, 12P3-2ALQ161-
     158-1,33D7-50-1314-1
4.7.47.1 Theory of operation
4.7.47.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.47.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.47.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.47.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.7.47.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.47.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.7.48 Serial Digital Multiplex Assembly
     (SDMA) TR: TOs 5F27-3-2, 5F27-3-
     8-1, 33D7-50-891-1
4.7.48.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.48.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.48.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.49 Side Window Defogger TR: TOs
     8D1-12-28-2, 8D1-12-28-8-1, 33D7-
     50-1208-1
4.7.49.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.49.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.49.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.50 Spoiler Controller TR: TOs 8C3-18-
     6-2, 8C3-18-6-8-1, 33D7-50-821-1
4.7.50.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.50.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.50.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.51 Signal Data Converter/ Crash Data
     Recorder (SDC/CDR)TR: TOs 5F1-7-
     5-2, 5F1-7-5-8-1, 33D7-50-1167-1
4.7.51.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.51.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.51.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.52 Thrust Control Unit (TCU), Engine
     TR: TOs 2JA8-28-2, 2JA8-28-8-1,
     33D7-50-785-1
4.7.52.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.52.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.52.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.53 Total Fuel Rate Indicator TR: TOs
     5L6-2-66-2, 5L6-2-66-8-1, 33D7-50-
     814-1
4.7.53.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.53.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.53.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.54 Vertical Situation Display/Digital
     Electronics Unit (VSD/DEU) TR: TOs
     5N29-17-2, 5N29-17-8-1, 33D7-50-
     781-1
4.7.54.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
                                                                  54
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.7.54.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.7.54.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.7.55 Vertical Situation Display Indicator
      (VSDI) TR: TOs 5N29-16-2, 5N29-
      16-8-1, 33D7-50-780-1
4.7.55.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.7.55.2 Operational check                                *                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.7.55.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.8 B-1 RADAR ELECTRONIC WAR
    FARE (R/EW) TEST STATION TR:
    TOs 33A1-7-261-1, 33A1-8-941-1,
    33D7-10-129-11-3, 33D7-44-251-1,
    33D7-44-251-8-1, 33D7-33-196-
    1,33DA52-21-11
4.8.1 Theory of operation of RF Module
4.8.1.1 LRU DC power generation and                                                                                            -         B         -              -
        Switching
4.8.1.2 RF Stimulus                                                                                                            -         B         -              -
4.8.1.3 RF Measurement                                                                                                         -         B         -              -
4.8.1.4 Phase Noise Analyzer                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.8.2 Wire run list and wiring diagrams                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.8.3 Peculiar ATLAS                                                                                                           -         B         -              -
4.8.4 Operate test station and associated
      equipment to:
4.8.4.1 Perform Turn-on Procedure                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.8.4.2 Perform Standby Procedure                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.8.4.3 Perform Shutdown Procedure                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.8.4.4 Perform CONF                              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.8.4.5 Perform DIAG                              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.8.4.6 Perform ALIN                              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.8.4.7 Perform adjustments
4.8.4.7.1 Calibration Tests                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.8.4.7.2 CALS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.8.4.7.3 Portable Automatic Test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
         Equipment Calibration (PATEC)
         ITA/Software
4.8.4.8 Perform Declass                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.8.5 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.8.5.1 LRU DC power generation and                                                                                            -         -         -              -
        switching
4.8.5.2 RF Stimulus                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.8.5.3 RF measurement                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.8.5.4 Phase Noise Analyzer                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.9 B-1 RADIO FREQUENCY (RF)
    DEFENSIVE AUTOMATIC TEST
    EQUIPMENT (ATE)
    AUGMENTATION EQUIPMENT
    (DAAE) TR: TOs 33D7-13-99-1, 33D7-
    13-99-8-1, 33D7-50-1029-1
4.9.1 Theory of operation

                                                                  55
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.9.1.1 Power distribution                                                                                                     -        A          -              -
4.9.1.2 TMA FTG                                                                                                                -        A          -              -
4.9.1.3 Waveform Generator FTG                                                                                                 -        A          -              -
4.9.1.4 Band 1-3 Receiver FTG                                                                                                  -        A          -              -
4.9.1.5 Radio Frequency (RF) Source FTG                                                                                        -        A          -              -
4.9.1.6 Frequency Encoder FTG                                                                                                  -        A          -              -
4.9.1.7 Tail Warning Receiver FTG                                                                                              -        A          -              -
4.9.1.8 Test Adapter Group (TAG)                                                                                               -        A          -              -
4.9.1.9 Cooling system                                                                                                         -        A          -              -
4.9.2 Wire run list and wiring diagrams                                                                                        -        A          -              -
4.9.3 Peculiar ATLAS                                                                                                           -        A          -              -
4.9.4 Operate test station and associated
      equipment to:
4.9.4.1 Perform Power-up/Power-down                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.9.4.2 Perform CONF                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.9.4.3 Perform DIAG                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.9.4.4 Perform alignment                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.9.4.5 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.10 B-1 R/EW LRU/TPS
    MAINTENANCE
4.10.1 Driver, Band 6 TR: TOs 12P3-
      2ALQ161-72, 12P3-2ALQ161-78-1,
      33D7-50-1300-1
4.10.1.1 Theory of operation
4.10.1.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.1.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.1.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.1.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.1.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.2 Driver, Band 7 TR: TOs 12P3-
      2ALQ161-82, 12P3-2ALQ161-88-1,
      33D7-50-1242-1
4.10.2.1 Theory of operation
4.10.2.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.2.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.2.2 Operational check                        *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.10.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.2.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.2.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.2.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.3 Encoder TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-
      122, 12P3-2ALQ161-128-1, 33D7-50-
      1228-1
4.10.3.1 Theory of operation
4.10.3.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.3.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -

                                                                  56
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.10.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.3.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.3.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.3.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.4 Frequency Channelizer (FCh) TR:
     TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-132, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-138-1, 33D7-50-1311-1
4.10.4.1 Theory of operation
4.10.4.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.4.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.4.2 Operational check                        *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.10.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.4.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.4.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.4.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.5 Interferometer AntennaTR: TOs
     12P3-2ALQ161-352, 12P3-2ALQ161-
     358-1, 33D7-50-1305-1
4.10.5.1 Theory of operation
4.10.5.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.5.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.5.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.5.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.6 Interferometer Receiver (IR) TR:
     TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-112, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-118-1, 33D7-50-1269-1
4.10.6.1 Theory of operation
4.10.6.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.6.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.6.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.6.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.6.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.7 Radar Set Antenna (RSA) TR: TOs
     12P1-4-30-2, 12P1-4-30-8-1, 33D7-
     44-255-1
4.10.7.1 Theory of operation
4.10.7.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.7.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.7.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.7.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.8 Radar Receiver-Transmitter (RRT)
     TR: TO 12P1-4-32-2, 12P1-4-32-4
4.10.8.1 Theory of operation
4.10.8.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
                                                                  57
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.10.8.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.8.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.8.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.8.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.9 Radar Transmitter (RT) TR: TO
     12P1-4-33-2, 12P1-4-33-4
4.10.9.1 Theory of operation
4.10.9.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.9.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.9.2 Operational check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.10.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.9.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.9.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.10.9.4 RT Path Loss Compensation                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.10.9.5 RT Harmonization and Alignment                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.10.10 Radar Signal Processor (RSP) TR:
     TO 12P1-4-31-2,12P1-4-31-4
4.10.10.1 Theory of operation
4.10.10.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.10.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.10.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.10.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.10.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.10.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.10.4 Load/Verify OFP                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.10.11 Receiver, Bands 1,2,3 TR: TOs
     12P3-2ALQ161-92, 12P3-2ALQ161-
     98-1, 33D7-50-1227-1
4.10.11.1 Theory of operation
4.10.11.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.11.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.11.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.11.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.11.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.11.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.11.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.12 Receiver, Bands 4-8 TR: TOs
     12P3-2ALQ161-102, 12P3-2ALQ161-
     108-1, 33D7-50-1310-1
4.10.12.1 Theory of operation
4.10.12.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.12.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.12.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.12.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.12.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.12.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                    -         -         -              -


                                                                  58
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.10.13 Receiver Antenna, Band 6 (ADR)
     TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-322, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-328-1, 33D7-50-1301-1
4.10.13.1 Theory of operation
4.10.13.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.13.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.13.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.13.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.13.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.13.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.14 Receiver Antenna, Band 7 (ADR)
     TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-332, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-338-1, 33D7-50-1302-1
4.10.14.1 Theory of operation
4.10.14.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.14.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.14.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.14.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.14.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.14.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.15 Receiver Antenna, Band 8 (ADR)
     TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-342, 12P3-
     ALQ161-348-1,33D7-50-1303-1
4.10.15.1 Theory of operation
4.10.15.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.15.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.15.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.15.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.15.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.15.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.16 Receiver Antenna, Bands 6,7,8
     (ADR) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-352,
     12P3-2ALQ161-358-1, 33D7-50-
     1304-1
4.10.16.1 Theory of operation
4.10.16.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.16.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.16.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.16.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.16.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.16.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.17 RF Source, Band 4/5 TR: TOs
     12P3-2ALQ161-182, 12P3-2ALQ161-
     188-1, 33D7-50-1229-1
4.10.17.1 Theory of operation
4.10.17.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.17.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.17.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.17.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.17.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
                                                                  59
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.10.17.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.17.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.18 RF Source, Band 6 TR: TOs 12P3-
     2ALQ161-192, 12P3-2ALQ161-198-1,
     33D7-50-1230-1
4.10.18.1 Theory of operation
4.10.18.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.18.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.18.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.18.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.18.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.18.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.18.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.19 RF Source Repeater, Band 7 TR:
     TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-202, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-208-1, 33D7-50-1231-1
4.10.19.1 Theory of operation
4.10.19.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.19.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.19.2 Operational check                       *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.10.19.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.19.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.19.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.19.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.20 RF Source Repeater, Band 8 TR:
     TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-212, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-218-1, 33D7-50-1232-1
4.10.20.1 Theory of operation
4.10.20.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.20.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.20.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.20.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.20.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.20.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.20.4 TPS Normalization                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.21 Transmitter, Band 4 (FWD & AFT)
     TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-12, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-2, 12P3-2ALQ161-18-
     1,33D7-50-1270-1, 33D7-50-1312-1
4.10.21.1 Theory of operation
4.10.21.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.21.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.21.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.21.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.21.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.21.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -




                                                                  60
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.10.22 Transmitter, Band 5 (FWD & AFT)
     TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-22, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-28-1, 12P3-2ALQ161-32,
     12P3-2ALQ161-38-1, 33D7-50-
     1313-1
4.10.22.1 Theory of operation
4.10.22.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.22.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.22.2 Operational check                       *                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.10.22.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.22.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.22.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.23 Transmitter, Band 6 TR: TOs 12P3-
     2ALQ161-42, 12P3-2ALQ161-48-1,
     33D7-50-1240-1
4.10.23.1 Theory of operation
4.10.23.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.23.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.23.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.23.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.23.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.23.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.24 Transmitter, Band 7 TR: TOs 12P3-
     2ALQ161-52,12P3-2ALQ161-58-1,
     33D7-50-1241-1 TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-
     52, 12P3-2ALQ161-58-1, 33D7-50-
     1241-1
4.10.24.1 Theory of operation
4.10.24.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.24.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.24.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.24.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.24.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.24.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.25 Transmitter Antenna, Band 6 TR:
     TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-282, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-288-1, 33D7-50-1307-1
4.10.25.1 Theory of operation
4.10.25.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.25.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.25.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.25.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.25.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.25.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.26 Transmitter Antenna, Band 7
     (LFWD, RFWD & AFT) TR: TOs
     12P3-2ALQ161-292, 12P3-2ALQ161-
     298-1, 33D7-50-1308-1
4.10.26.1 Theory of operation
4.10.26.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
                                                                  61
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.10.26.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.26.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.26.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.26.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.26.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.27 Transmitter Antenna, Band 8
     (FWD & AFT) TR: TOs 12P3-
     2ALQ161-302, 12P3-2ALQ161-308-1,
     3D7-50-1309-1
4.10.27.1 Theory of operation
4.10.27.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.27.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.27.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.27.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.27.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.27.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.28 Transmitter/Driver, Band 8 TR:
     TOs 12P3-2ALQ161-62, 12P3-
     2ALQ161-68-1, 33D7-50-1243-1
4.10.28.1 Theory of operation
4.10.28.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.28.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.28.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.28.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.28.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.28.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.29 Tail Warning Function (TWF)
     Receiver/Processor TR: TOs 12P3-
     2ALQ161-142, 12P3-2ALQ161-148-1,
     33D7-50-1820-1
4.10.29.1 Theory of operation
4.10.29.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.29.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.29.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.29.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.29.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.29.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.30 Waveform Generator TR: TOs
     12P3-2ALQ161-222, 12P3-2ALQ161-
     228-1, 33D7-50-1233-1
4.10.30.1 Theory of operation
4.10.30.1.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.30.1.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.30.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.10.30.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
4.10.30.3.1 TPS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.10.30.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.11 UPGRADED SYSTEMS TEST
   BENCH (USTB) TR: TO 33D7-44-365-
   1
                                                                  62
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.11.1 Theory of operation
4.11.1.1 System Console Assembly
4.11.1.1.1 Control System                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.11.1.1.2 Power Distribution System                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.11.1.1.3 Cooling System                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.11.2 LRU System Test Bench
4.11.2.1 Power Distribution System                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.11.2.2 Cooling System                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.11.2.3 Waveguide Pressurization                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.11.3 Wire Run List and Wiring Diagrams                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.11.4 Perform Confidence                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.11.5 Perform Self-test                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.11.6 Preventive Maintenance                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.11.7 Perform Calibration                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.11.8 Repair                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.11.9 USTB LRU Maintenance
4.11.9.1 Radar Target Indicator (RTI) TR:
       TO 12P1-4-29-2
4.11.9.1.1 Perform Operational Testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.11.9.1.2 Troubleshoot and Repair                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.11.9.2 Radar Set Antenna (RSA) TR: TO
       12P1-4-30-2
4.11.9.2.1 Perform Operational Testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.11.9.2.2 Troubleshoot and Repair                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.11.9.3 Radar Signal Processor (RSP) TR:
       TO 12P1-4-31-2
4.11.9.3.1 Perform Operational Testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.11.9.3.2 Troubleshoot and Repair                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.11.9.4 Radar Receiver Transmitter (RRT)
       TR: TO 12P1-4-32-2
4.11.9.4.1 Perform Operational Testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.11.9.4.2 Troubleshoot and Repair                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.11.9.5 Radar Transmitter (RT) TR: TO
       12P1-4-33-2
4.11.9.5.1 Perform Operational Testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.11.9.5.2 Troubleshoot and Repair                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.11.9.6 Radar Video Signal Processor
       (RVSP) TR: TO 12P1-4-34-2
4.11.9.6.1 Perform Operational Testing                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.11.9.6.2 Troubleshoot and Repair                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.12 B-1 IATE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   TR: TOs 35D29-5-6-1, 33DA21-494-1,
   33DA43-35-1, 33DA102-18-1, 33D5-8-
   129-1, 35D3-11-104, 42B5-1-2, 35D3-
   42-2-1, 36-1-58
4.12.1 Oil Cooling Cart
4.12.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         B         -              -
4.12.1.2 Operate                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.12.1.3 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.12.1.4 Inspections                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
                                                                  63
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.12.2 Anechoic Device
4.12.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.12.2.2 Operate                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.12.2.3 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.12.2.4 Inspections                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.12.3 LRU Handling Fixture
4.12.3.1 Operate                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.12.3.2 Inspections                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.12.4 Air Cooling Cart
4.12.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.12.4.2 Operate                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.12.4.3 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.12.4.4 Inspections                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.12.5 Calorimeter
4.12.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.12.5.2 Operate                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.12.5.3 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.12.5.4 Inspections                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.12.6 Pressure Tester
4.12.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.12.6.2 Operate                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.12.6.3 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.12.6.4 Inspections                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.12.7 Radiation Monitor
4.12.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.12.7.2 Operate                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.12.7.3 Inspections                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.12.8 Nitrogen Cart
4.12.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.12.8.2 Operate                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.12.8.3 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.12.8.4 Inspections                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.12.9 Lifting Dolly
4.12.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.12.9.2 Operate                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.12.9.3 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.12.9.4 Inspections                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.12.10 Micro Circuit Programmer
4.12.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.12.10.2 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.12.11 Environmental Chamber
4.12.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.12.11.2 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.12.12 RF Roll Up Amp
4.12.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.12.12.2 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.13 B-1 Enhanced Power and Control
   Assembly Tester (EPCAT)TR: TO
   33D7-38-330-1

                                                                  64
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.13.1 Theory of operations
4.13.1.1 Power Control and Distribution                                                                                        -         -         -              -
       Subsystem
4.13.1.2 UUT Power Subsystem                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.13.1.3 Digital Subsystem                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.13.1.4 Analog Subsystem                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.13.1.5 Computer Subsystem                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.13.1.6 Control Software Subsystem                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.1.7 Loads Subsystem                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.1.8 Interface Subsystem                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.13.2 Perform Power-up/Power-down                                                                                             -         -         -              -
     Procedures
4.13.3 Perform Emergency Shutdown                                                                                              -         -         -              -
     Procedures
4.13.4 Perform Confidence Test                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.13.5 Perform Interactive Test                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.13.6 Functional Test
4.13.6.1 Perform Wire Verification Test                                                                                        -         -         -              -
       (WVT)
4.13.6.2 Perform Functional Verification                                                                                       -         -         -              -
       Test (FVT)
4.13.7 Perform Transition Interface Fixture                                                                                    -         -         -              -
     (TIF) Test
4.13.8 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions
4.13.8.1 Power Control and Distribution                                                                                        -         -         -              -
       Subsystem
4.13.8.2 UUT Power Subsystem                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.13.8.3 Digital Subsystem                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
4.13.8.4 Analog Subsystem                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.13.8.5 Computer Subsystem                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
4.13.8.6 Control Software Subsystem                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.8.7 Loads Subsystem                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.8.8 Interface Subsystem                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.13.9 Perform Preventative Maintenance                                                                                        -         -         -              -
     Procedures
4.13.10 Perform Calibrations Procedures                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.13.11 Power Control Assemblies (PCA)
     & associated ITAs assigned to PCAT:
4.13.11.1 PCA 2453A05 TR: TOs 8C3-16-
       3-2, 8C3-16-3-8-1
4.13.11.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.13.11.1.2 Perform software tests                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.13.11.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.13.11.2 PCA 2451A01 TR: TOs 8C3-16-
       4-2, 8C3-16-4-8-1
4.13.11.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.13.11.2.2 Perform software tests                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.13.11.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.13.11.3 PCA 2453A03 TR: TOs 8C3-16-
       5-2,8C3-16-5-8-1
                                                                  65
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.13.11.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.13.11.3.2 Perform software tests                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.13.11.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.13.11.4 PCA 2451A02 TR: TOs 8C3-16-
       6-2, 8C3-16-6-8-1
4.13.11.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.13.11.4.2 Perform software tests                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.13.11.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.13.11.5 PCA 2451A04 TR: TOs 8C3-16-
       7-2, 8C3-16-7-8-1
4.13.11.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.13.11.5.2 Perform software tests                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.13.11.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.13.11.6 PCA 2455A04 TR: TOs 8C3-16-
       8-2, 8C3-16-8-8-1
4.13.11.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.13.11.6.2 Perform software tests                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.13.11.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.13.11.7 PCA 2454A01 TR: TOs 8C3-16-
       9-2, 8C3-16-9-8-1
4.13.11.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.13.11.7.2 Perform software tests                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.13.11.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.13.11.8 PCA 2453A01 TR: TOs 8C3-16-
       10-2, 8C3-16-10-8-1
4.13.11.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.13.11.8.2 Perform software tests                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.13.11.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.13.11.9 PCA 2455A01 TR: TOs 8C3-16-
       11-2, 8C3-16-11-8-1
4.13.11.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.13.11.9.2 Perform software tests                                                                                             -         -         -              -
4.13.11.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.13.11.10 PCA 2451A01 TR: TOs 8C3-
       16-12-2, 8C3-16-12-8-1
4.13.11.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.10.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.10.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.11 PCA 2453A02 TR: TOs 8C3-
       16-13-2, 8C3-16-13-8-1
4.13.11.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.11.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.11.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.12 PCA 2431A01 TR: TOs 8C3-
       16-18-2, 8C3-16-18-8-1
4.13.11.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.12.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.13 PCA 2452A06 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-7-2, 8C3-18-7-8-1
                                                                  66
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.13.11.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.13.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.13.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.14 PCA 2453A06 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-8-2, 8C3-18-8-8-1
4.13.11.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.14.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.14.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.15 PCA 2453A04 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-9-2, 8C3-18-7-9-1
4.13.11.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.15.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.15.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.16 PCA 2455A06 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-10-2, 8C3-18-10-8-1
4.13.11.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.16.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.16.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.17 PCA 2455A05 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-11-2, 8C3-18-11-8-1
4.13.11.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.17.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.17.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.18 PCA 2454A06 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-12-2, 8C3-18-12-8-1
4.13.11.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.18.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.18.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.19 PCA 2454A05 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-13-2, 8C3-18-13-8-1
4.13.11.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.19.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.19.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.20 PCA 2454A04 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-14-2, 8C3-18-14-8-1
4.13.11.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.20.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.20.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.21 PCA 2452A03 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-15-2, 8C3-18-15-8-1
4.13.11.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.21.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.21.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.22 PCA 2452A04 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-16-2, 8C3-18-16-8-1
4.13.11.22.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.22.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.22.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.23 PCA 2452A01 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-17-2, 8C3-18-17-8-1
                                                                  67
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.13.11.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.23.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.23.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.24 PCA 2454A03 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-18-2, 8C3-18-18-8-1
4.13.11.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.24.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.24.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.11.25 PCA 2451A05 TR: TOs 8C3-
       18-19-2, 8C3-18-19-8-1
4.13.11.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
4.13.11.25.2 Perform software tests                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.13.11.25.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
4.13.12 Bench Test Unit (BTU) TR: TO
     33D7-6-291-1
4.13.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
4.13.12.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3 PCAs assigned
4.13.12.3.1 Dual Pylon Relay Assembly
4.13.12.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.1.2 Perform software tests                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.2 Common Rotary Launcher PCA
4.13.12.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.2.2 Perform software tests                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.3 Conventional Rotary Launcher
         PCA
4.13.12.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.3.2 Perform software tests                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.4 Forward Annex Bay Air
         Launch Cruise Missile (ALCM)
4.13.12.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.4.2 Perform software tests                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.5 Aft Weapons Bay ALCM PCA
4.13.12.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.5.2 Perform software tests                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.13.12.3.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                      -         -         -              -
4.14 B-1 PANELS TEST SET
4.14.1 Test Set TR: TO 33A1-3-532-1
4.14.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.14.1.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2 LRUs assigned:
4.14.2.1 Hydraulic Indicator Panel TR: TO
       8D24-11-2
4.14.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.14.2.1.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                            -         -         -              -

                                                                  68
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.14.2.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.14.2.2 Communication and Traffic
       Control Panel TR: TO 16W-40-2
4.14.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.14.2.2.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.14.2.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.14.2.3 Flight Control Power Panel TR:
       TO 8D24-16-2
4.14.2.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.14.2.3.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.14.2.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.14.2.4 Center Gravity (CG) Control Panel
       TR: TO 8D24-15-2
4.14.2.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.14.2.4.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.14.2.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.14.2.5 Avionics Power Supply TR: TO
       16W7-44-2
4.14.2.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.14.2.5.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.14.2.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.14.2.6 Auxiliary Caution Panel TR: TO
       8D15-9-28-2
4.14.2.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.14.2.6.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.14.2.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.14.2.7 Flight Director Control Panel TR:
       TO 8A4-18-13-2
4.14.2.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.14.2.7.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.14.2.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.14.2.8 Flight Control Trim Pilots control
       panel TR: TO 8D24-15-2
4.14.2.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.14.2.8.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.14.2.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.14.2.9 EMUX Control Panel TR: TO
       8D24-21-2
4.14.2.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.14.2.9.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.14.2.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.14.2.10 Flight Instruments Test and Mode
       Control Panel TR: TO 8D24-23-2
4.14.2.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.10.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.10.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.11 AFCS Lighted Pushbuttons Panel
       Assembly TR: TO 5A13-5-22-2
4.14.2.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.11.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
                                                                  69
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.14.2.11.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.12 Fuel Management Control Panel
       TR: TO 8D24-19-2
4.14.2.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.12.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.13 External Fuel Control Panel TR:
       TO 8D24-20-2
4.14.2.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.13.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.13.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.14 Annunciator Aft Station Panel
       TR: TO 8A4-18-14-2
4.14.2.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.14.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.14.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.15 Alternate Throttle Pilots/Co-
       Pilots Control Panel TR: TO 8A13-
       14-20-2
4.14.2.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.15.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.15.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.16 Aircraft Navigation Tail Light
       TR: TO 8A10-8-12-2
4.14.2.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.16.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.16.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.17 Aerial Refueling Control Panel
       TR: TO 8D24-14-2
4.14.2.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.17.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.17.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.18 Battery Charger (4-067-02) TR:
       TOs 33A1-3-532-1, 33A1-3-532-4,
       8D2-44-2, 8D2-44-4
4.14.2.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.18.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.18.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.19 Battery Charger (199BC101-1)
       TR: TO 8D2-43-2
4.14.2.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.19.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.19.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.20 Driver Assembly, Engine Caution
       and Warning TR: TO 8C3-14-18-2
4.14.2.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.20.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.20.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.21 Box Assembly Aisle Light
       Switch TR: TO 8A10-4-2-2
                                                                  70
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.14.2.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.21.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.21.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.22 Control Unit Compass TR: TO
       5N6-8-5-2
4.14.2.22.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.22.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.22.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.23 Fire Extinguishing Panel TR: TO
       13F9-7-2
4.14.2.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.23.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.23.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.24 Light Strobe Anti-collision FWD
       Wing TR: TO 8A10-8-11-2
4.14.2.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.24.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.24.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.25 Panel Annunciator Offensive
       System Operator (OSO) TR: TO
       8D10-7-19-2
4.14.2.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.25.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.25.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.26 Panel Annunciator Pilot TR: TO
       8D24-30-2
4.14.2.26.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.26.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.26.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.27 Panel Assembly Auxiliary Power
       Unit TR: TO 8E3-3-3-2
4.14.2.27.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.27.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.27.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.28 Panel Assembly Flight Station
       Oxygen TR: TO 16W7-43-2
4.14.2.28.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.28.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.28.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.29 Panel Assembly Aft Station
       Environmental TR: TO 8D24-22-2
4.14.2.29.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.29.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.29.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.30 Panel Assembly Essential C/B
       Defensive System Operator (DSO)
       TR: TO 8D24-27-2
4.14.2.30.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.30.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.30.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
                                                                  71
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.14.2.31 Panel Assembly Essential C/B
       OSO TR: TO 8D24-29-2
4.14.2.31.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.31.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.31.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.32 Panel Assembly EXT Fuel Tank
       Jettison TR: TO 8D24-9-2
4.14.2.32.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.32.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.32.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.33 Panel Assembly Forward
       Lighting TR: TO 8C10-8-7-2
4.14.2.33.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.33.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.33.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.34 Panel Assembly Left Hand (L/H)
       TR: TO 5E6-5-7-2
4.14.2.34.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.34.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.34.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.35 Panel Assembly Overhead Driver
       L/H TR: TO 8C10-7-5-2
4.14.2.35.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.35.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.35.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.36 Panel Assembly Overhead Driver
       R/H TR: TO 8C10-7-5-12
4.14.2.36.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.36.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.36.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.37 Panel Assembly Takeoff and
       Landing Gear TR: TO 8D24-28-2
4.14.2.37.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.37.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.37.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.38 Panel Engine Auxiliary TR: TO
       8D24-26-2
4.14.2.38.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.38.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.38.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.39 Panel Environmental Flight
       Station TR: TO 8A25-35-2
4.14.2.39.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.39.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.39.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.40 Panel External Alert Access TR:
       TO 8D15-9-29-2
4.14.2.40.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.40.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.40.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
                                                                  72
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.14.2.41 Panel Fire Detector TR: TO
       8D24-13-2
4.14.2.41.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.41.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.41.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.42 Panel Ground Refuel/Defuel TR:
       TO 8D24-18-12
4.14.2.42.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.42.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.42.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.43 Panel Landing Gear Assembly
       TR: TO 8D24-17-2
4.14.2.43.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.43.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.43.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.44 Panel Light Control DSO/OSO
       TR: TO 8D10-7-15-2
4.14.2.44.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.44.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.44.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.45 Panel Mode Ejection TR: TO
       8D24-10-2
4.14.2.45.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.45.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.45.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.14.2.46 Panel Power Distribution (engine
       start) TR: TO 8D24-24-2
4.14.2.46.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
4.14.2.46.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.14.2.46.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.15 MANUAL LRU MAINTENANCE
4.15.1 Power Supply Dimmer TR: TO
     8C15-8-26-2
4.15.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.15.1.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.15.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.15.2 Power Supply Tail Strobe Light TR:
     TO 8D3-54-2
4.15.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.15.2.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.15.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.15.3 Power Supply Wing Strobe Light
     TR: TO 8D11-3-53-2
4.15.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.15.3.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.15.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.15.4 Control Stick Grip TR: TO 16C1-27-
     23-2
4.15.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.15.4.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
                                                                  73
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

4.15.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.15.5 Wing Sweep Command Position
     Sensor Assembly TR: TO 5F25-21-2
4.15.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.15.5.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.15.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.15.5.4 Perform assembly/ disassembly                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.15.6 Single Position Sensor Assembly
     TR: TO 5F25-18-2
4.15.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.15.6.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.15.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.15.6.4 Perform assembly/ disassembly                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.15.7 Vertical Stabilizer Assembly TR: TO
     5F25-14-2
4.15.7.1 Perform maintenance test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.15.7.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.15.7.3 Perform assembly/ disassembly                                                                                         -         -         -              -
4.15.8 Annunciator Light Dimmer Type II
     TR: TO 8C15-8-24-2
4.15.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.15.8.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.15.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.15.9 Radar Transponder Beacon Control
     TR: TO 12P4-2APX105-2
4.15.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
4.15.9.2 Perform maintenance test                                                                                              -         -         -              -
4.15.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
4.15.10 Intercommunication Station (ICS-
     150) TR: TO 12R2-2AIC33-2
4.15.10.1 Operate ICS Test Set                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
4.15.10.2 Troubleshoot and Repair ICS                                                                                          -         -         -              -
       Test Set
4.15.10.3 ICS-150 Central Control Unit
       (CCU)
4.15.10.3.1 Perform Maintenance Testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.15.10.3.2 Troubleshoot and Repair                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.15.10.4 ICS-150 Crew Station Unit
       (CSU)
4.15.10.4.1 Perform Maintenance Testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.15.10.4.2 Troubleshoot and Repair                                                                                            -         -         -              -
4.15.10.5 ICS-150 Maintenance Station
       Unit (MSU)
4.15.10.5.1 Perform Maintenance Testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
4.15.10.5.2 Troubleshoot and Repair                                                                                            -         -         -              -




                                                                  74
                                                                                                                            Attachment 4
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

5. ATTACHMENT 5, B-2 TRAINING
  REQUIREMENTS
5.1 RFAD/DIFA Test Station TR: TO
    33D7-3-341-1
5.1.1 Theory of operation
5.1.1.1 Computer and peripherals                                                                                               -         B         -              -
5.1.1.2 Analog Subsystems                                                                                                      -         B         -              -
5.1.1.3 TUB and ASCOR                                                                                                          -         B         -              -
5.1.1.4 TEST STATION COOLING                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.1.1.5 Power distribution                                                                                                     -         B         -              -
5.2 RFAD/DIFA Test Station Procedures
5.2.1 Computer Systems
5.2.1.1 Sun Computer TR: TO 31S5-4-
        2977-7, 31S5-4-2879-1
5.2.1.1.1 Execute software                                *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.2.1.1.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                     *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.2.1.2 Dec/Alpha Computer TR: TO
        31S5-4-2919-8-1
5.2.1.2.1 Execute software                                *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.2.1.2.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                     *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.2.1.3 Computer Peripherals
5.2.1.3.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
5.2.1.3.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.2.1.4 Ethernet/Ethernet devices TR: TOS
        31R2-4-1851-7, 31S5-4-2847-7,
        31S5-4-2913-1, 31S5-4-2914-1,
        31S5-4-2918-7, 31S5-4-2920-1,
        31S5-4-2940-7
5.2.1.4.1 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.2.1.5 HPIB Bus TR: TO 33A1-7-363-7
5.2.1.5.1 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.2.2 TUB TR: TO 33D7-71-80-2
5.2.2.1 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.2.3 Bay 1 TR: TO 33D7-3-431-1
5.2.3.1 Power Control Panel
5.2.3.1.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
5.2.3.1.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.2.4 Bay 2 TRUs TR: TO 33D7-3-431-1
5.2.4.1 Digital Oscilloscope (HP54542A)
5.2.4.1.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.4.1.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.4.2 Pulse Generators 1 and 2
        (HP8110A) TR: TO 33A1-8-1148-1,
        33A1-8-1149-2
5.2.4.2.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.4.2.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.4.3 ASCOR Matrix
5.2.4.3.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.4.3.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -

                                                                  75
                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

5.2.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions VXI
        Mainframe and Sub-components TR:
        TO 33D7-71-80-2
5.2.4.4.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.4.4.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5 Bay 4 TRUs TR: TOs 33D7-3-431-1,
      33D7-71-80-2
5.2.5.1 Counter (HP53132A) TR: TOs
        33A1-10-317-1, 33A1-10-319-1,
        33A1-10-320-1
5.2.5.1.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.5.1.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.2 AFG 2020 TR: TO 31S5-4-2939-8-
        1
5.2.5.2.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.5.2.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.3 Wavetek 295 TR: TOs 33A1-8-
        1158-1, 33A1-8-1159-2
5.2.5.3.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.5.3.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.4 Universal Source (HP3245A)TR:
        TOs 31S5-4-2913-7, 33A1-3-614-5,
        33A1-3-615-2, 33A1-3-616-1
5.2.5.4.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.5.4.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.5 AC/DC Signal Switching Matrix
        (HP8760A K83) TR: TO 33A1-3-
        607-1
5.2.5.5.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.5.5.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.6 Switch Driver (HP11713A) TR:
        TOs 33D7-72-20-1
5.2.5.6.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.5.6.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.7 DC Signal Source Amplifier
        (HP85127)
5.2.5.7.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.5.7.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.8 Multimeter (HP3458A) TR: TOs
        33A1-12-1442-1, 33A1-13-1444-2,
        33A1-12-1445-5
5.2.5.8.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.5.8.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.9 Audio Analyzer (HP8903) TR: TO
        33A1-13-722-1
5.2.5.9.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.5.9.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.5.10 Video Signal Generator (TSG
        1001) TR: TOs 31S5-4-2863-8-1,
        33A1-8-1154-2

                                                                  76
                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

5.2.5.10.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.2.5.10.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.2.5.11 RS232/IEEE-488 Interface
        Converter TR: TOs 33A1-7-367-1
5.2.5.11.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.2.5.11.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.2.6 BAY 5 TRUs TR: TO 33D7-3-431-1
5.2.6.1 DC Supply 6 (HP6674) TR: TOs
        35C1-2-1339-1, 35C1-2-1340-1,
        35C1-2-1341-2, 35C1-2-1342-2-1
5.2.6.1.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.6.1.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.2 Power Supply 7 (HV 350) TR: TO
        33D7-6-366-1
5.2.6.2.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.6.2.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.3 AC Power Source (California
        Instruments 4500L) TR: TO 33D7-6-
        365-7
5.2.6.3.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.6.3.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.4 Bus Expander (GPIB-120A) TR:
        TO 31S5-4-2934-8-1
5.2.6.4.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.6.4.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.5 Power Supply 9 TR: TOs 33A1-12-
        1449-1, 33A1-12-1450-1
5.2.6.5.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.6.5.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.6 DC Supply 10-1 and 10-2 TR: TOs
        35C1-2-1339-1, 35C1-2-1340-1,
        35C1-2-1342-2
5.2.6.6.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.6.6.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.6.7 Transformer Vault (Bay 6)
5.2.6.7.1 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
5.2.6.7.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.2.6.8 Upper/Lower AC Expansion Box
5.2.6.8.1 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.2.6.9 VXI/Computer Power Supplies
5.2.6.9.1 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.2.6.10 Power Distribution Units/Power
        Strips
5.2.6.10.1 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
5.2.7 BAY 7 TRUs TR: TO 33D7-3-431-1
5.2.7.1 Data Generator (HP8000) TR: TOs
        33A1-8-1145-7, 33A1-8-1146-1
5.2.7.1.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.7.1.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -

                                                                  77
                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

5.2.7.2 Power Supply 4 (HP6642A) TR:
        TOs 35C1-2-1339-1, 35C1-2-1340-1
5.2.7.2.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.7.2.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.7.3 Power Supply 3a:A thru 3b:C
        (HP6675A) TR: TOs 35C1-2-1339-
        1, 35C1-2-1342-2
5.2.7.3.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.7.3.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.8 BAY 8 TRUs TR: TO 33D7-3-431-1
5.2.8.1 DC Loads 1, 2, and 3 (HP6050A)
        TR: TOs 31S5-4-2943-2, 33A1-3-
        617-1
5.2.8.1.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.8.1.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.8.2 Power Supplies 1:A thru 2:D
        (HP6033A, HP6038A) TR: TO
        33A1-7-371-1
5.2.8.2.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.8.2.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.8.3 DC Supplies 5, 8, and 10
        (HP6672A, HP6673A) TR: TOs
        35C1-2-1339-1,35C1-2-1342-2
5.2.8.3.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.8.3.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.2.8.4 Relay Box B TR: TO 33A1-7-363-7
5.2.8.4.1 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.2.8.4.2 Remove and Replace                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.3 B-2 SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
5.3.1 DIFA PCE CART TR: TO 33B4-8-
      11-1
5.3.1.1 Theory                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.3.1.2 Operation                                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.3.1.3 Remove and Replace TRUs                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.3.2 Intermediate ROLL-UP CART TR:
      TO 33D7-50-2655-1
5.3.2.1 Theory                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.3.2.2 30-Day                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.3.2.3 180-Day                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.3.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.3.2.5 Remove and Replace                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
5.3.3 Forced Air Cooling Cart (FACC) TR:
      TO 35E10-31-1
5.3.3.1 Theory                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.3.3.2 Test                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.3.3.4 180-Day                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.4 B-2 DIFA/RFAD Maintenance
5.4.1 DIFA/RFAD Operating Procedures
      TR: TO 33D7-3-431-1-1
                                                                  78
                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

5.4.1.1  Perform Turn-on                          *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.1.2  Perform Shutdown                         *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.1.3  Perform Operator Inspection              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.1.4  Perform Cleaning                         *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.1.5  Operate Mechanical Rotation                                                                                           -         -         -              -
        System
5.4.2 Perform DIFA/RFAD Preventative
      Maintenance TR: TO 33D7-3-431-1-1
5.4.2.1 7-day                                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.2.2 30-day                                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.2.3 90-day                                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.2.4 180-day                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
5.4.3 Perform DIFA/RFAD Functional
      Testing TR: TO 33D7-70-80-2, 33A1-
      7-376-1, CPIN 81T
      B2/AUTOCALVER/US-001-00A
5.4.3.1 Overnights                                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.3.2 Checkers                                  *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.3.3 Self Test                                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.3.4 Norm Cal                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.4.3.5 Manual Cal Ver                                    *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.4.3.6 Automatic Cal Ver                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
5.4.4 DIFA/RFAD CLASSIFICATION
      PROCEDURES TR: CPIN:
      81TB2/AUTODECLASS-U001-00A,
      81T-B2/AUTODECLASS-U001-00D
5.4.4.1 Classify Station                          *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.4.4.2 Declassify Station                        *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5 LINE REPLACEABLE UNIT (LRU)
    MAINTENANCE
5.5.1 Base Fixture TR: CPIN: 81T-B2/IST-
      T130-00A
5.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.5.1.2 Test
5.5.1.2.1 Fixture                                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.1.2.2 PM                                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.1.3 Repair
5.5.1.3.1 Fixture                                         *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.5.1.3.2 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.2 Actuator Remote Terminal (ART)
      TR: TO 8D1-64-21-2, 8D1-64-21-4,
      CPIN: 81F-OQ498/ART-U001-01A
5.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.5.2.2 Test
5.5.2.2.1 PM                                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.2.2.2 LRU                                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.2.3 Repair
5.5.2.3.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.2.3.2 LRU                                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -

                                                                  79
                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

5.5.3 Anti-Skid Control Unit (ASCU) TR:
      TO 4BA8-43-2, CPIN: 81U-
      OQ503/ASCU-U001-01A
5.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.5.3.2 Test
5.5.3.2.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.3.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.3.3 Repair
5.5.3.3.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.3.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.4 Audio Central Distribution Unit
      (ACDU) TR: TO 12R2-4-303-Series,
      CPIN: 81C-OQ470/ACDU-U001-01A
5.5.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.5.4.2 Test
5.5.4.2.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.4.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.4.3 Repair
5.5.4.3.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.4.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.5 Audio Control Panel (ACP) TR: TO
      12R2-4-304-Series, CPIN: 81C-
      OQ470/ACDU-U001-01A
5.5.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.5.5.2 Test
5.5.5.2.1 PM                                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.5.2.2 LRU                                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.5.3 Repair
5.5.5.3.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.5.3.2 LRU                                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.6 Avionics Control Computer (ACC)
      TR: TO 12P5-4-91-Series,CPIN: 81Q-
      OQ512/ACC-U001-01A
5.5.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.5.6.2 Test
5.5.6.2.1 PM                                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.6.2.2 LRU                                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.6.3 Repair
5.5.6.3.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.6.3.2 LRU                                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.7 Bus Control Unit (BCU) TR: TOs
      8A3-5-60-Series, CPIN: 81Q-
      OQ497/BCU-U001-01A
5.5.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.5.7.2 Test
5.5.7.2.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.7.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.7.3 Repair
5.5.7.3.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.7.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
                                                                  80
                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

5.5.8 Conditioned Air System Controller
      (CASC) TR: TOs 15A-2-8-Series,
      CPIN: 81N-OQ469/CASC-U001-01A
5.5.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.5.8.2 Test
5.5.8.2.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.8.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.8.3 Repair
5.5.8.3.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.8.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.9 Engine Start Control Unit (ESCU)
      TR: TOs 2JA3-67-Series, CPIN: 81E-
      OQ474/ESCU-U001-01A
5.5.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.5.9.2 Test
5.5.9.2.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.9.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.9.3 Repair
5.5.9.3.1 PM                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.9.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.10 Engine Thrust Control Unit (ETCU)
      TR: TOs 8D3-3-4-Series, CPIN: 81E-
      OQ468/ETCU-U001-01D
5.5.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.10.2 Test
5.5.10.2.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.10.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.10.3 Repair
5.5.10.3.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.10.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.11 Fire Warning and Leak Detector
      (FWALD) TR: TOs 8A3-17-7-Series,
      CPIN: 81E-OQ473/FWLDC-U001-
      01A
5.5.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.11.2 Test
5.5.11.2.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.11.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.11.3 Repair
5.5.11.3.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.11.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.12 Flight Control Computer (FCC)TR:
      TOs 5F5-13-6-Series, CPIN: 81F-
      OQ513/FCC-U001-01A
5.5.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.12.2 Test
5.5.12.2.1 PM                                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.12.2.2 LRU                                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.12.3 Repair
5.5.12.3.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
                                                                  81
                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

5.5.12.3.2 LRU                                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.12.4 Erase/Reprogram EEPROM CCA               *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.13 Fuel Management Measurement
     Processor (FMMP) TR: TOs 5L18-4-
     Series, CPIN: 81S-OQ502/FMMP
     U001-01A
5.5.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.13.2 Test
5.5.13.2.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.13.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.13.3 Repair
5.5.13.3.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.13.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.14 Manual Fuel Control Panel (MFCP)
     8334706 TR: TOs 8D3-18-19-Series,
     CPIN: 81S-OQ472/MFCP-U001-01A
5.5.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.14.2 Test
5.5.14.2.1 PM                                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.14.2.2 LRU                                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.14.3 Repair
5.5.14.3.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.14.3.2 LRU                                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.5.15 Power Control Unit (PCU) TR: TOs
     12R5-4-224-Series, CPIN: 81F-
     OQ500/PCU-U001-01A
5.5.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.15.2 Test
5.5.15.2.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.15.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.15.3 Repair
5.5.15.3.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.15.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.16 Power Drive Controller (PDC)TR:
     TOs 8D3-3-5-Series, CPIN: 81Q-
     OQ505/PDC-U001-01A
5.5.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.16.2 Test
5.5.16.2.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.16.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.16.3 Repair
5.5.16.3.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.16.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.17 Status Monitor Remote Terminal
     (SMRT) TR: TOs 8A3-17-8-Series,
     CPIN: 81F-OQ467/SMRT-U001-01A
5.5.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.17.2 Test
5.5.17.2.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.17.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
                                                                  82
                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

5.5.17.3 Repair
5.5.17.3.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.17.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.18 Generator Control Unit (GCU) TR:
      TO 8A3-5-59-2
5.5.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
5.5.18.2 Test
5.5.18.2.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.18.2.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.5.18.3 Repair
5.5.18.3.1 PM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.5.18.3.2 LRU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
5.6 B-2 MANUAL SUPPORT
    EQUIPMENT/LRU MAINTENANCE
5.6.1 EQUIPMENT
5.6.1.1 Serial bus analyzer TR: TBD
5.6.1.1.1 Theory                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.6.1.1.2 Operate                                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.6.1.1.3 Calibrate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.6.1.1.4 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.1.2 Cable Breakout Adapter
5.6.1.2.1 Theory                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.6.1.2.2 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
5.6.1.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.1.3 EPROM Erasing System
5.6.1.3.1 Theory                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
5.6.1.3.2 Operate                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
5.6.1.3.3 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.1.4 Relay Panel tester TR: TO 33D7-
        10-280-1
5.6.1.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.6.1.4.2 Perform Maintenance Testing             *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.6.1.4.3 Calibrate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.6.1.4.4 Isolate/repair malfunctions                     *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.6.2 LRUs
5.6.2.1 Avionics Processor Control Panel
        TR: TO 12R5-4-226-2
5.6.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.6.2.1.2 Perform Maintenance Testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.2 Angle-of-Attack Indexers TR: TO
        5F24-3-2
5.6.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.6.2.2.2 Perform Maintenance Testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.3 Alternate Trim Control Panel TR:
        TO 8C3-14-29-2
5.6.2.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.6.2.3.2 Perform Maintenance Testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -

                                                                  83
                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                           B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

5.6.2.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.4 Flight Control Maintenance Panel
        TR: TO 8C3-14-30-2
5.6.2.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.6.2.4.2 Perform Maintenance Testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.5 Fuel Control Relay Panel TR: TO
        8RA1-6-2
5.6.2.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.6.2.5.2 Perform Maintenance Testing             *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.6.2.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                     *                                                                    -         -         -              -
5.6.2.6 Power Control Relay Panel TR: TO
        8RA1-5-2
5.6.2.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.6.2.6.2 Perform Maintenance Testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.6.3 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.7 Ground Refuel Panel TR: TO
        16W7-53-2
5.6.2.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.6.2.7.2 Perform Maintenance Testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
5.6.2.8 On Board Maintenance Printer
        (OBMP) TR: TO 12S2-4-21-Series
5.6.2.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.6.2.8.2 Perform Maintenance Testing             *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.6.2.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.6.2.9 Control Stick Grip Assembly TR:
        TO 8RA1-5-2
5.6.2.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
5.6.2.9.2 Perform Maintenance Testing             *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.6.2.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions             *                                                                            -         -         -              -
5.6.2.10 Miniature Airborne GPS Receiver
        (MAGR) TR: TO 12R5-4-260-8-1
5.6.2.10.1 Theory                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
5.6.2.10.2 Programming                                                                                                         -         -         -              -




                                                                  84
                                                                                                                            Attachment 5
                                           C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

6. ATTACHMENT 6, C-17 TRAINING
  REQUIREMENTS
6.1 C-17 Avionics Intermediate Shop
6.1.1 C-17 Automatic Test Equipment
      (CATE) Test Station TR: TO 33D7-
      24-34-1; 33D7-24-34-8-1
6.1.1.1 Theory of operation
6.1.1.1.1 Druck Pneumatic Pressure                                                                                             -         B         -              -
         Stimulus Cart
6.1.1.1.2 Display Unit Test Set                                                                                                -         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.3 Measurement Subsystem                                                                                                -         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.4 Stimulus Subsystem                                                                                                   -         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.5 Power Subsystem
6.1.1.1.5.1 Test System Power                                                                                                  -         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.5.2 LRU System Power                                                                                                   -         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.6 Switching Subsystem                                                                                                  -         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.7 Interface Connection Assembly                                                                                        -         B         -              -
6.1.1.1.8 Computer Subsystem and                                                                                               -         B         -              -
         Peripherals
6.1.1.2 Software System
6.1.1.2.1 Execute Personal ATLAS Work                                                                                          -         -         -              -
         Station (PAWS)
6.1.1.2.2 Execute National Instruments                                                                                         -         -         -              -
         Measurement Test Studio
6.1.1.3 Test Station operation TR: TOs
        33D7-24-34-1; 33D7-24-34-8-1
6.1.1.3.1 Perform initial power-up                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.1.3.2 Perform Daily Turn-On/Shut-       *                                                                                  -         -         -              -
         Down
6.1.1.3.3 Perform Confidence Test           *                                                                                  -         -         -              -
6.1.1.3.4 Perform Functional Test           *                                                                                  -         -         -              -
6.1.1.3.5 Perform Tier 1 and Tier 2        *R                                                                                  -         -         -              -
         CAL/VER Tests
6.1.1.3.6 Perform Special Tests            *R                                                                                  -         -         -              -
6.1.1.4 Test Station Maintenance TR: TOs :
        33D7-24-34-1; 33D7-24-34-8-1
6.1.1.4.1 Perform Periodic Maintenance      *                                                                                  -         -         -              -
6.1.1.4.2 Isolate Malfunctions Using PAWS                                                                                      -         -         -              -
6.1.1.4.3 Isolate malfunctions using Test                                                                                      -         -         -              -
         Studio
6.1.1.4.4 Repair Test Station                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
6.1.2 Display Unit Test Set TR: TO 33B4-
      11-17-1
6.1.2.1 Perform Initial/Daily Turn-On       *                                                                                  -         -         -              -
6.1.2.2 Test Set Maintenance
6.1.2.2.1 Perform Periodic Inspections      *                                                                                  -         -         -              -
6.1.2.2.2 Isolate malfunctions                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
6.1.2.2.3 Repair Test Set                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
6.1.2.2.4 Perform Alignment                 *                                                                                  -         -         -              -
6.1.2.2.5 Calibrate Test Set                            *R                                                                     -         -         -              -
                                                                  85
                                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                           C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

6.1.3 Basic Interface Test Adapter
6.1.3.1 Perform Wrap Around Test                  *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.3.2 Isolate and Repair Malfunction                                                                                         -         -         -              -
6.1.3.3 Perform Periodic Inspections                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.4 Aerial Delivery Locks Control Panel
      TR: TOs 8D3-18-13-2, 8D3-18-13-8-1
6.1.4.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
6.1.4.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.5 Aerial Delivery System Controller
      TR: TOs 8D3-34-2-2, 8D3-34-2-8-1
6.1.5.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
6.1.5.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.6 Antiskid/Brake Temperature Monitor
      Control Unit TR: TOs 4B A8-42-2,
      4B A8-42-8-1
6.1.6.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
6.1.6.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.7 Air Data Computer TR: TOs 5N5-13-
      24-2, 5N5-13-24-8-1
6.1.7.1 Perform Operational Check                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.7.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                       *                                                                    -         -         -              -
6.1.8 Actuator Flight Control Panel TR:
      TOs 5A44-12-2, 5A44-12-8-1
6.1.8.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
6.1.8.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.9 Automatic Pilot Control Indicator
      TR: TOs 5A13-5-24-2, 5A13-5-24-8-1
6.1.9.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
6.1.9.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.10 Central Aural Warning Computer
      TR: TOs 8C15-11-4-2, 8C15-11-4-8-1
6.1.10.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.10.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.11 Cargo Delivery System Control
      Status Panel TR: TOs 8D3-18-12-2.
      8D3-18-12-8-1
6.1.11.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.11.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.12 Communications Equipment
      Controller TR: TOs 12R2-4-255-2,
      12R2-4-255-8-1
6.1.12.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.12.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.13 Communication-Navigation
      Equipment Controller TR: TOs 12R2-
      4-255-2, 12R2-4-255-8-2
6.1.13.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.13.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.14 Core Integrated Processor TR: TOs
      5N5-13-29-2, 5N5-13-29-8-1
                                                                  86
                                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                           C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

6.1.14.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.14.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.15 Data Entry Keyboard TR: TOs 5N5-
     13-23-2, 5N5-13-23-8-1
6.1.15.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.15.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.16 Mission Computer Display Unit TR:
     TOs 5N29-23-2, 5N29-13-23-8-1
6.1.16.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.16.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.17 Multifunction Display Unit TR: TOs
     5N29-19-2, 5N29-19-8-1, 5N29-37-2
6.1.17.1 Perform Operational Check                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.17.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                      *                                                                    -         -         -              -
6.1.18 Environmental Control System
     Controller TR: TOs 15 A8-5-88-2,
     15A8-5-88-8-1
6.1.18.1 Perform Operational Check                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.18.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                      *                                                                    -         -         -              -
6.1.19 Electronic Engine Control TR: TOs
     8A3-5-56-2, 8A3-5-56-8-1
6.1.19.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.19.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.20 Environmental System-Fire
     Detection Control Panel TR: TOs
     8D24-41-2, 8D24-41-8-1
6.1.20.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.20.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.21 Engine-Thrust Rating Panel Display
     TR: TOs 5E6-5-6-2, 5E6-5-6-8-1
6.1.21.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.21.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.22 Flight Control Computer TR: TOs
     5A7-3-45-2, 5A7-3-45-8-1
6.1.22.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.22.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.23 Fluid Purity Controller TR: TOs
     15X23-2-2, 15X23-2-8-1
6.1.23.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.23.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.24 Fuel Quantity Computer TR: TOs
     6J3-4-122-2, 6J3-4-122-8-1
6.1.24.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.24.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.25 Fuel System-Engine Start Control
     Panel TR: TOs 8D24-40-2, 8D24-40-
     8-1
6.1.25.1 Perform Operational Check                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.25.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                      *                                                                    -         -         -              -


                                                                  87
                                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                           C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

6.1.26 Ground Refueling Control Panel TR:
     TOs 8D24-36-2, 8D24-36-8-1
6.1.26.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.26.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.27 Hydraulic System Control Panel TR:
     TOs 8D24-39-2, 8D24-39-8-1
6.1.27.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.27.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.28 Head-Up Display Unit TR: TOs
     5N29-22-2, 5N29-22-8-1
6.1.28.1 Perform Operational Check                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.28.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                      *                                                                    -         -         -              -
6.1.28.3 Perform CRT Adjustment                   *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.29 Intercommunications Set Control
     TR: TOs 12R2-4-255-2, 12R2-4-255-
     8-3
6.1.29.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.29.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.30 Liquid Quantity Indicator TR: TOs
     8C21-48-2, 8C21-48-8-1
6.1.30.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.30.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.31 Multifunction Control Panel TR:
     TOs 5N6-9-10-2, 5N6-9-10-8-1
6.1.31.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.31.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.32 Manifold Failure Detection
     Controller TR: TOs 6J28-4-2, 6J28-4-
     8-1
6.1.32.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.32.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.33 Propulsion Data Management
     Computer TR: TOs 5F1-7-6-2, F1-7-6-
     8-1
6.1.33.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.33.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.34 Spoiler Control-Electronic Flap
     Computer TR: TOs 5A6-3-46-2, 5A6-
     3-46-8-1
6.1.34.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.34.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.35 Signal Data Converter TR: TOs
     12P5-4-88-2, 12P5-4-88-8-1
6.1.35.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.35.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.36 Sensor Signals Interface TR: TOs
     5F8-21-5-2, 5F8-21-5-8-1
6.1.36.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.36.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -


                                                                  88
                                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                           C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

6.1.37 Video Integrated Processor TR: TOs
      12P5-95-8-1; 12P5-4-95-2; 33D7-42-
      9-5-1
6.1.37.1 Perform Operational Check                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.1.37.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                      *                                                                    -         -         -              -
6.1.38 Warning and Caution Annunciator
      Panel TR: TOs 8D15-9-30-2, 8D15-9-
      30-8-1
6.1.38.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.38.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.1.39 Warning and Caution Computer TR:
      TOs 8D15-13-11-2, 8D15-13-11-8-1
6.1.39.1 Perform Operational Check                                                                                             -         -         -              -
6.1.39.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
6.2 General Support Equipment
6.2.1 Operate Theodolite TR: TO 49A8-                   *R                                                                     -         -         -              -
      20-1
6.2.2 Operate/Maintain Electrical Load                                                                                         -         -         -              -
      Bank TR: TO 35CA1-3-11-1
6.2.3 HUD Purge Set                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.2.4 Desiccator Test Set                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
6.2.5 OFPLS TR: TO 33D7-42-9-5-1
6.2.5.1Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
6.2.5.2 Perform OFP loading/verifying             *                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.2.5.3 Perform TAWS database                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
        loading/verifying
6.2.5.4 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.3 C-17 Specific Manual Systems
6.3.1 Intercommunications Systems
6.3.1.1 Public Address Amplifier TR: TO
        12R2-4-301-2
6.3.1.1.1 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.3.1.1.2 Alignment                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.3.1.2 Public Address Control TR: TOs
        12R2-4-255-2, 12R2-4-255-8-1
6.3.1.2.1 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.3.1.2.2 Alignment                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.3.1.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.3.1.3 Interphone Station Unit TR: TOs
        12R2-4-255-2, 12R2-4-255-8-1
6.3.1.3.1 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.3.1.3.2 Alignment                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
6.3.1.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.3.2 Navigation Systems
6.3.2.1 Color Weather Radar TR: TOs
        12P6-2APS133-12, 12P6-2APS133-
        32, 12P6-2APS133-42
6.3.2.1.1 RTA-1FB(M)
6.3.2.1.1.1 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
6.3.2.1.1.2 Alignment                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
                                                                  89
                                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                           C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

6.3.2.1.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
6.3.2.1.2 Radar Antenna AS-3440A TR:
         TO 12P6-2APS133-42
6.3.2.1.2.1 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
6.3.2.1.2.2 Alignment                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.3.2.1.3 Radar Control Box C-12034 TR:
         TO 12P6-2APS133-32
6.3.2.1.3.1 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
6.3.2.1.3.2 Alignment                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.3.2.1.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
6.3.2.2 Headsets
6.3.2.2.1 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
6.3.2.2.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -




                                                                  90
                                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                       E-3 & E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

7. ATTACHMENT 7, E-3 & E-8
  TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
7.1 AUDIO DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
7.1.1 C-9656/A Mission Audio Panel
      (MAP) TR: TOs 12R2-2A-342, 12R2-
      2A-347-1
7.1.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.1.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.1.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunction                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.1.2 C-9657/A Special Audio Panel (SAP)
      TR: TOs 12R2-2A-342, 12R2-2A-347-
      1
7.1.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.1.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.1.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunction                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.1.3 C-9658/A Flight Deck Audio Panel
      (FDAP) TR: TOs 12R2-2A-342,
      12R2-2A-347-1
7.1.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.1.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.1.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.4 C-9659/A Mission Maintenance
      Audio Panel (MMAP) TR: TOs 12R2-
      2A-342, 12R2-2A-347-1
7.1.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.1.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.1.4.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.5 C-9660/A Air Vehicle Maintenance
      Audio Panel (AVMAP) TR: TOs
      12R2-2A-342, 12R2-2A-347-1
7.1.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.1.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.1.5.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.6 OB-76B/A Central Switching Unit
      (CSU) TR: TOs 12R2-2A-1602, 12R2-
      2A-1608-1
7.1.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.1.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.1.6.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.7 C-9655B Program Display and Test
      Panel (PD&TP) TR: TOs 12R2-2A-
      1612, 12R2-2A-1618-1, 12R2-2A-312
7.1.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.1.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.1.7.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.8 SB-4082A/A UHF Baseband
      Distribution Panel (BDP) TR: TO
      12R2-2A-1532
7.1.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.1.8.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -

                                                                  91
                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                       E-3 & E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

7.1.8.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.9 SB-4083A/A HF/VHF Baseband
      Distribution Panel (BDP) TR: TOs
      12R2-2A-1532
7.1.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.1.9.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.1.9.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.10 TA-934A Keyer TR: TO 12R2-2A-
      132
7.1.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.1.10.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.10.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.1.11 C-11098/A Audio Switch TR: TO
      12R2-2A-132
7.1.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.1.11.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.11.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.1.12 C-12548/A Flight Deck Interface
      Unit (FDIU) TR: Applicable System
      TOs
7.1.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.1.12.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.1.13 C-10896/A Flight Deck System
      Control (FDSC) TR: TO 12R2-2A-132
7.1.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.1.13.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.1.13.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.2 UHF
7.2.1 UHF High Power Amplifier (HPA)
      TR: Applicable System TOs
7.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.2.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.2.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.2.2 MX-9622/A UHF Low Power Filter
      (LPF) TR: 12R2-2A-182, 12R2-2A-
      183
7.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.2.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.2.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.2.3 UHF High Power Amplifier/Power
      Supply (HPA/PS) TR: Applicable
      System TOs
7.2.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.2.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.2.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.2.4 UHF HPA & HPA/PS Mount TR:
      Applicable System TOs
7.2.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.2.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
                                                                  92
                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                       E-3 & E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

7.2.4.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.2.5 RT-1266(V)1 UHF Transceiver TR:
      TOs 12R2-4-196-2, 12R2-4-196-3
7.2.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.2.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.2.5.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.2.6 RT-1258(V)1 UHF Transceiver TR:
      TOs 12R2-2A-196-2, 12R2-2A-196-3
7.2.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.2.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.2.6.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.2.7 MT-4658/A UHF Transceiver Mount
      TR: TO 12R2-2A-472
7.2.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.2.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.2.7.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.2.8 J-3850A Applique TR: TO 12R2-4-
      221-2
7.2.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.2.8.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.2.8.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.2.9 C-9639/A Mission Digital Radio
      Control Panel (MDRCP) TR: TO
      12R2-2A-152
7.2.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.2.9.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.2.9.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.3 VHF
7.3.1 618M-2B/2D VHF AM Transceiver
      TR: TO 12R2-2A-352
7.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.3.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.3.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.3.2 C-9620/A VHF Control TR: TO
      12R2-2A-352
7.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.3.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.3.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.3.3 C-9621/A VHF Control TR: TO
      12R2-2A-352
7.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.3.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.3.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.4 SATCOM
7.4.1 MD-1238 Satellite Interface Module
      (SIM) TR: TOs 12R2-4-267-2, 12R2-
      4-267-3
7.4.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.4.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.4.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
                                                                  93
                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                       E-3 & E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

7.4.2 C-11892 SIM Control TR: TOs 12R2-
      4-267-2, 12R2-4-267-3
7.4.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.4.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.4.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.5 VOR/ILS
7.5.1 51RV-2B Receiver TR: TO 12R5-
      169-3
7.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.5.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.5.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.5.2 RNA-34A Digital Receiver TR: TO
      12R5-4-215-2
7.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.5.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.5.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.5.3 313N VOR/ILS Control TR: TOs
      12R5-4-92-7, 12R5 4-92-12, 12R5-4-
      92-14
7.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.5.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.5.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.6 COLOR WEATHER RADAR
7.6.1 RT-1338 Transceiver TR: TOs 12P6-
      2APS133-2, 12P6-2APS133-22
7.6.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.6.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.6.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.6.2 IP-1374 Indicator TR: TOs 12P6-
      2APS133-2, 12P6-2APS133-22
7.6.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.6.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.6.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.6.3 C-10814A RADAR Control TR: TOs
      12P6-2APS133-2, 12P6-2APS133-32
7.6.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.6.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.6.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.6.4 AS-3440 Antenna TR: TOs 12P6-
      2APS133-2, 12P6-2APS133-42
7.6.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.6.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.6.4.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.7 RADIO ALTIMETER
7.7.1 860F-1 Transceiver TR: TO 12R5-4-
      75-2, 12R5-4-75-22
7.7.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.7.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.7.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -

                                                                  94
                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                       E-3 & E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

7.7.2 860F-4 Digital Transceiver TR: TO
      12R5-4-75-2, 12R5-4-75-22
7.7.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.7.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.7.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.8 DATALINK
7.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
7.8.2 CP-1575A Digital Data Processor
      (DDP) TR: TOs 1E-3A-2-23-2-1, 1E-
      3A-2-23-2-2
7.8.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.8.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.8.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.8.3 J-4781 Interface Unit (IU) TR: TOs
      1E-3A-2-23-2-1, 1E-3A-2-23-2-2
7.8.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.8.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.8.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.8.4 RT-1641 Receiver/Transmitter (R/T)
      TR: TOs 1E-3A-2-23-2-1, 1E-3A-2-
      23-2-3
7.8.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.8.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.8.4.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.8.5 SB-4322 Power Distribution Unit
      (PDU) TR: TOs 1E-3A-2-23-2-1, 1E-
      3A-2-23-2-4
7.8.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.8.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.8.5.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.8.6 AM-7389 High Power Amplifier
      (HPA) TR: TOs 1E-3A-2-23-2-1, 1E-
      3A-2-23-2-5
7.8.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.8.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.8.6.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.8.7 J-4782 Antenna Interface Unit (AIU)
      TR: TOs 1E-3A-2-23-2-1, 1E-3A-2-
      23-2-5
7.8.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.8.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.8.7.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.8.8 C-11993 Control Display Unit (CDU)
      TR: TOs 1E-3A-2-23-2-1, 1E-3A-2-
      23-2-6
7.8.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.8.8.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.8.8.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.9 TADIL-A


                                                                  95
                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                       E-3 & E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

7.9.1 CV-2830 Digital/Analog Converter
      TR: TOs 12S2-2AYC-2, 12S2-2AYC-
      3
7.9.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.9.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.9.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.9.2 C-9529/A Control/Indicator TR: TO
      12S2-2A-13
7.9.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
7.9.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.9.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.10 HAVE QUICK II
7.10.1 R-2338A/A Receiver Exciter
      Module (REM) TR: TO 12R2-
      2ARC204-12
7.10.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.10.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.10.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.10.2 OS-286A/A Radio Frequency
      Oscillator (RFO) TR: TO 12R2-
      2ARC204-12
7.10.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.10.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.10.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.10.3 CI-11641A/A Control Indicator (CI)
      TR: TO 12R2-2ARC204-12
7.10.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.10.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.10.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.11 ATTITUDE HEADING
    REFERENCE SYSTEM TR: Applicable
    system TOs
7.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
7.11.2 Compass Adapter Compensator
7.11.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.11.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.11.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.11.3 Amplifier Power Supply/ Electronic
      Control Amplifier
7.11.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.11.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.11.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.11.4 Displacement Gyro
7.11.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.11.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.11.4.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.11.5 Rate Gyro
7.11.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.11.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.11.5.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
                                                                  96
                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                       E-3 & E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

7.11.6 Rate Switching Gyro
7.11.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.11.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.11.6.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.11.7 Compass System Controller
7.11.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.11.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.11.7.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.12 DIGITAL AUTOPILOT TR:
   Applicable system TOs
7.12.1 Amplifier/Computer
7.12.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.12.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.12.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.12.2 Autopilot System Control Panel
7.12.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.12.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.12.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.12.3 Axis Rate Control
7.12.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.12.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.12.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.12.4 Three Axis Trim Indicator
7.12.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.12.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.12.5 Automatic Flight Control Interface
     Unit
7.12.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.12.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.12.5.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.12.6 Power Junction Box
7.12.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.12.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.12.6.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.12.7 Elevator Surface Servo
7.12.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.12.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.12.7.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.12.8 Aileron Servo
7.12.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.12.8.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.12.8.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.12.9 Spoiler Position Transmitter
7.12.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.12.9.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.12.9.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.12.10 Dual Speed Stab Trim Mechanism
7.12.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.12.10.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                           -         -         -              -

                                                                  97
                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                       E-3 & E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

7.12.10.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
7.12.11 Flight Mode Annunciator
7.12.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.12.11.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.12.11.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
7.12.12 Elevator Torque Adapter
7.12.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
7.12.12.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.13 YAW DAMPER SYSTEM TR:
   Applicable system TOs
7.13.1 Series Yaw Damper Coupler
7.13.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.13.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.13.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.13.2 Parallel Yaw Damper Coupler
7.13.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.13.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.13.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.13.3 Yaw Damper Control Panel
7.13.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.13.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.13.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.14 CENTRAL AIR DATA SYSTEM TR:
   Applicable system TOs
7.14.1 Standard Centralized Air Data
     Computer
7.14.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.14.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.14.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.14.2 Static Air Temperature Indicator
7.14.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.14.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.14.3 True Airspeed Indicator
7.14.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.14.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.14.4 Transformer Synchro Assembly
7.14.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.14.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.14.4.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15 FLIGHT DIRECTOR SYSTEM TR:
   Applicable system TOs
7.15.1 Flight Director Computer
7.15.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.15.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.15.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.2 Flight Director Control
7.15.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.15.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.15.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -

                                                                  98
                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                       E-3 & E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

7.15.3 Flight Instrument Augmentation
     Unit
7.15.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.15.3.2 Inspect/Operate                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
7.15.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.4 Attitude Director Indicator
7.15.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.15.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.15.4.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.5 Horizontal Situation Indicator
7.15.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.15.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.15.5.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.6 Rate Gyro
7.15.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.15.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.15.7 Nav Mode Select Panel
7.15.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.15.7.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.15.7.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.15.8 Switch Light Assembly
7.15.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.15.8.2 Inspect/Operate                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
7.15.8.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16 ENGINE PRESSURE RATION (EPR)
   SYSTEM TR: Applicable system TOs
7.16.1 EPR Transducer
7.16.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.16.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.16.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.16.2 EPR Indicator
7.16.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.16.2.2 Inspect/Operate                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
7.16.2.3 Adjust Indicator                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
7.17 PITOT STATIC SYSTEM TR:
   Applicable system TOs
7.17.1 Aims Computer
7.17.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.17.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.17.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.17.2 AAU-19/A Altimeter
7.17.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.17.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.17.3 AAU-27 Altimeter
7.17.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.17.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.17.4 Airspeed Indicator
7.17.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.17.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -

                                                                  99
                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                       E-3 & E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

7.17.5 Mach-Airspeed Indicator
7.17.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.17.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.17.6 Vertical Velocity Indicator
7.17.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.17.6.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.18 GLOBAL POSITIONING/
   INERTIAL NAVIGATION SYSTEMS
   (INS) TR: Applicable system TOs
7.18.1 Embedded Global Positioning INS
     (EGI)
7.18.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.18.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.18.1.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.18.1.4 Perform Operational Flight Plan                                                                                       -         -         -              -
       Load
7.18.2 Integrated Control/Display Unit
     (ICDU)
7.18.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.18.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.18.2.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.18.2.4 Perform Operational Flight Plan                                                                                       -         -         -              -
       Load
7.18.3 Bus Subsystem Interface Unit
     (BSIU)
7.18.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.18.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.18.3.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.18.4 GINS Control Panel
7.18.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.18.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.18.4.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.18.5 Data Loader
7.18.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
7.18.5.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
7.18.5.3 Isolate/Repair malfunctions                                                                                           -         -         -              -
7.18.6 Power Supply and Conditioning
     Unit/AMPS 2000
7.18.6.1 Perform Voltage/Capacitance                                                                                           -         -         -              -
       Checks
7.18.6.2 Charge/Recondition Batteries                                                                                          -         -         -              -
7.19 TEST EQUIPMENT
7.19.1 AHRS Test Bench
7.19.1.1 Operate                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
7.19.1.2 Calibrate                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
7.19.1.3 Inspect/Repair                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
7.19.2 Three Axis Tilt Table
7.19.2.1 Inspect/Lubricate                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
7.19.3 Scorsby Table
7.19.3.1 Inspect/Lubricate                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
                                                                 100
                                                                                                                            Attachment 7
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8. ATTACHMENT 8, F-15 TRAINING
  REQUIREMENTS
8.1 MOBILE ELECTRONIC TEST SET
    (METS) TR: TOs AT-822VB-MEB
    series, 33D7-17-80-1, 33D7-38-254-
    1TR: TOs AT-822VB-MEB series,
    33D7-17-80-1, 33D7-38-254-1
8.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.1.2 Signal Flow Within and Between
      Peculiar TRUs
8.1.2.1 Computer Control Memory Unit                                                                                           -         -         -              -
        (CCMU) TR: TO 33D7-68-37-2
8.1.2.2 Signal Generator Converter (SGC)                                                                                       -         -         -              -
        TR: TO 33AA41-10-2
8.1.2.3 Converter Interface (CI) TR: TO                                                                                        -         -         -              -
        33D7-17-80-1
8.1.3 Perform Self-Test                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
8.1.4 Level Rate-of-Turn Table                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.1.5 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.1.6 Perform Required Inspections                                                                                             -         -         -              -
8.2 LRUs ASSIGNED TO THE METS
8.2.1 AAI R/T TR: TO 12P4-2APX76-8-1
8.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.1.2 Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.2.1.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.2 Air Data Computer (ADC) TR: TO
      12P4-2APX76-8-1
8.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.2.2 Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.2.3 Automatic Direction Finder
      Electronic Control Amplifier (ADF
      ECA) TR: TO 12R5-2ARD-108-1
8.2.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.3.2 Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.2.3.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.4 Avionics Interface Unit (AIU) #1 TR:
      TO 11F1-ASQ195-18-1
8.2.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.4.2 Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.2.4.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.5 Avionics Interface Unit (AIU) #2 TR:
      TO 11F1-ASQ195-28-1
8.2.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.5.2 Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.2.5.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.6 Electronic Air Inlet Controller (EAIC)
      TR: TO 5F28-2-8-19
8.2.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.6.2 Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.2.6.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
                                                                 101
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.2.7 Electronic Linear Accelerometer
      (ELA) TR: TO 5F2-32-8-2
8.2.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.7.2 Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.2.7.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.8 Engine Monitor Display TR: TO 5E1-
      2-14-8-1
8.2.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.8.2 Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.2.8.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.9 Flight Control Computer (FCC) TR:
      TO 5A7-3-43-8-1
8.2.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.9.2 Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.2.9.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.2.10 Identification Friend or Foe (IFF)
      Transponder TR: TO 12P4-2APX101-
      8-18
8.2.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.2.10.2 Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
8.2.10.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.2.11 Instrument Landing System (ILS)
      Receiver TR: TO 12R5-2ARN-427-3
8.2.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.2.11.2 Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
8.2.11.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.2.12 Instrument Landing System (ILS)
      Test Set TR: TO 33A1-3-473-8-1
8.2.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.2.12.2 Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
8.2.12.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.2.13 Intercommunications Set (ICSCP)
      TR: TO 12R2-4-280-8-1
8.2.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.2.13.2 Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
8.2.13.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.2.14 Upfront Control Panel (UFCP) TR:
      TO 12R5-4-222-8-1
8.2.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.2.14.2 Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
8.2.14.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.3 ANTENNA TEST STATION TR: TOs
    33-1-161, 33D7-35-39-1, 33D7-35-39-2
8.3.1 Antenna "A & B" Test Stations
8.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.3.1.2 Signal Flow Within and Between
        Peculiar TRUs
8.3.1.2.1 Antenna "A" Test Station
8.3.1.2.1.1 Antenna Power Supply                                                                                               -         -         -              -

                                                                 102
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.3.1.2.1.2 Low Voltage Power Supply                                                                                           -         -         -              -
           (LVPS) Primary Power Control
           Panel
8.3.1.2.1.3 Variable Transformer Panel                                                                                         -         -         -              -
8.3.1.2.1.4 Power Supply Assembly                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.3.1.2.1.5 LVPS Control and Display                                                                                           -         -         -              -
           Panel
8.3.1.2.1.6 Impedance Units 1 & 2                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.3.1.2.1.7 Antenna Control and Display                                                                                        -         -         -              -
           Panel
8.3.1.2.1.8 Hydraulic Power Supply                                                                                             -         -         -              -
8.3.1.2.1.9 Hydraulic Control Panel                                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.3.1.2.1.10 Servo Command Signal                                                                                              -         -         -              -
           Generator
8.3.1.2.1.11 X & L Band Signal Generator                                                                                       -         -         -              -
           TR: TO 33A1-8-718-1
8.3.1.2.1.12 RMS Volt Meter TR: TO                                                                                             -         -         -              -
           33A1-12-643-1
8.3.1.2.1.13 LRU Blower Panel                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.3.1.2.1.14 Transfer Function Analyzer                                                                                        -         -         -              -
           TR: TOs 33D7-10-79-1, 33D7-
           10-153-1
8.3.1.2.1.15 Nitrogen Supply                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.3.1.2.1.16 Hydraulic Flow Through and                                                                                        -         -         -              -
           Between Applicable TRUs
8.3.1.2.2 Antenna "B" Test Station
8.3.1.2.2.1 Transmitter Power Supply                                                                                           -         -         -              -
8.3.1.2.2.2 Transmitter Primary Power                                                                                          -         -         -              -
           Control Panel
8.3.1.2.2.3 Transmitter Control and Display                                                                                    -         -         -              -
           Panel
8.3.1.2.2.4 Transmitter Mounting Fixture                                                                                       -         -         -              -
8.3.1.2.2.5 Commercial Coolant Processing                                                                                      -         -         -              -
           Unit (CCPU) / Coolant
           Conditioning Unit (CCU)
8.3.1.2.2.6 Noise Analyzer TR: TO 33D7-                                                                                        -         -         -              -
           10-76-1
8.3.1.2.2.7 High Frequency Spectrum                                                                                            -         -         -              -
           Analyzer TR: TO 33D7-10-85-1
8.3.1.2.2.8 Transmitter Pulse Generator TR:                                                                                    -         -         -              -
           TO 33A1-8-719-1
8.3.1.2.2.9 Microwave Signal Generator                                                                                         -         -         -              -
           TR: TO 33A1-8-720-1
8.3.1.2.2.10 Coolant Flow Through and                                                                                          -         -         -              -
           Between Applicable TRUs
8.3.1.3 Perform RF Loss Correction Chart
        Procedures
8.3.1.3.1 Channel A                                       *                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.3.1.3.2 Channel B                                       *                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.3.1.4 Perform Confidence Test                   *                                                                            -         -         -              -

                                                                 103
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.3.1.5 Perform OA/FI Test                        *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.3.1.6 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.3.1.7 Perform Required Inspections              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.3.1.8 Perform Calibration/Alignment
8.3.1.8.1 Differential Pressure Gauge TR:                                                                                      -         -         -              -
         TO 33K-4-1698-15
8.3.1.8.2 Waveguide Interlock Test Set TR:                                                                                     -         -         -              -
         TO 33K6-4-1699-15
8.3.1.8.3 RF Interconnect Unit TR: TO                                                                                          -         -         -              -
         33K6-4-289-15
8.3.1.8.4 RF Power Meter TR: TO 33K-4-                                                                                         -         -         -              -
         289-15
8.3.1.8.5 Power Sensor TR: TO 33K-4-289-                                                                                       -         -         -              -
         15
8.3.2 Commercial Coolant Processing Unit
      (CCPU) / Coolant Conditioning Unit
      (CCU)
8.3.2.1 Service Refrigeration                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.3.2.2 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.3.2.3 Operate                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.3.3 Hydraulic Power Supply (HPS) /
      Commercial Hydraulic Power Supply
      (CHPS)
8.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.3.3.2 Service Hydraulic Power Supply                                                                                         -         -         -              -
8.3.3.3 Operate                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.3.4 Transmitter Mounting Fixture (TMF)
8.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.3.4.2 Troubleshoot / Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.3.4.3 Operate                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.4 ENHANCED AIRCRAFT RADAR
    TEST STATION (EARTS) TR: TOs
    33D7-44-353-1, 33D7-44-353-2, 33-1-
    161-1
8.4.1 Theory of Operation Channel A/
      Channel B TR: TO 33D7-44-353-2
8.4.1.1 Antenna Mounting Fixture TR: TO                                                                                        -         -         -              -
        33D7-44-353-2 TR: TO 33D7-44-
        353-2
8.4.1.2 Signal Flow Within and Between                                                                                         -         -         -              -
        Peculiar TRUs
8.4.1.3 Coolant Flow Within and Between                                                                                        -         -         -              -
        Peculiar TRUs
8.4.1.4 Hydraulic Flow Within and                                                                                              -         -         -              -
        Between Peculiar TRUs
8.4.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.4.3 Perform Required Inspections                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.4.4 Perform TMF Path Loss                               *                                                                    -         -         -              -
      Compensation TR: TO 33K4-4-604-15
8.4.5 Perform Calibration/Alignment

                                                                 104
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.4.5.1 Differential Pressure Gauge TR:                                                                                        -         -         -              -
        TO 33K-4-1698-15
8.4.5.2 Waveguide Interlock Test Set TR:                                                                                       -         -         -              -
        TO 33K6-4-1699-15
8.4.5.3 Pulse Generator TR: TO 33K3-4-                                                                                         -         -         -              -
        3099-15
8.4.5.4 116 MHZ Clock TR: TO 33K3-4-                                                                                           -         -         -              -
        3098-15
8.4.6 Commercial Coolant Processing Unit
      (CCPU) / Coolant Processing Unit
      (CPU)
8.4.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.4.6.2 Service Coolant                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
8.4.6.3 Service Refrigeration                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.4.6.4 Troubleshoot/Repair EARTS                                                                                              -         -         -              -
        Coolant Processing Units
8.4.7 Hydraulic Power Supply (HPS) /
      Commercial Hydraulic Power Supply
      (CHPS)
8.4.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.4.7.2 Service HPS                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.4.7.3 Operate                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.4.8 Transmitter Mounting Fixture (TMF)
8.4.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.4.8.2 Troubleshoot / Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.4.8.3 Operate                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.4.9 EARTS Software
8.4.9.1 Operation                                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.4.9.2 Station Software Boot                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.4.9.3 Test Program Selector/Loader                                                                                           -         -         -              -
        (TPSL) Menu TR: TO 33D7-44-353-
        18-1
8.4.9.4 Test Program Execution Modes TR:                                                                                       -         -         -              -
        TO 33D7-44-353-18-1
8.4.9.5 Diskette System Build Procedure                                                                                        -         -         -              -
        TR: TO 33-1-161-1
8.4.10 Test Program Language TR: TO                                                                                            -         -         -              -
      33D7-44-353-11
8.4.11 Use ARTS Maintenance Support                                                                                            -         -         -              -
      System (AMSS laptop) TR: TO 33D7-
      44-353-18-1
8.4.12 Perform Channel A Network                          *                                                                    -         -         -              -
      Analyzer Calibration Procedure TR:
      TO 33D7-44-353-8-2
8.4.13 Perform Confidence Tests on                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
      Channel A TR: TO 33D7-44-353-8-4
8.4.14 Perform Confidence Tests on                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
      Channel B TR: TO 33D7-44-353-8-3
8.4.15 Perform OA/FI Tests on Channel A           *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.4.16 Perform OA/FI Tests on Channel B           *                                                                            -         -         -              -

                                                                 105
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.5 ANTENNA/EARTS LRU/SRUs TR:
    TOs 12P2-2APG63 series, 12P2-
    2APG70 series Leave here and add
    under Antenna LRUs
8.5.1 Low Voltage Power Supply
8.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.5.1.2 Operational Check                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.5.1.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.5.2 Radar Antenna (031)
8.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.5.2.2 Operational Check                         *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.5.2.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.5.3 Radar Transmitter
8.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.5.3.2 Operational Check                         *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.5.3.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.6 TACTICAL ELECTRONIC
    WARFARE SYSTEM (TEWS)
    INTERMEDIATE SUPPORT SYSTEM
    (TISS) TR: TOs 33D7-33-217-1, 33D7-
    33-219-1, 33D7-33-224-1, 33D7-33-
    225-1, 33D7-33-226-1, 33D7-33-228-1,
    33D7-33-229-1, 33D7-38-2
8.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                     A          -         -              -
8.6.2 Signal Flow Within and Between
      Peculiar TRUs
8.6.2.1 Power Distribution Subsystem                                                                                          A         -          -              -
8.6.2.2 Computer Assembly                                                                                                     -         -          -              -
8.6.2.3 General Purpose Interface Test                                                                                        A         A          -              -
       Module (GPITM)
8.6.2.4 Radio Frequency Interface Test                                                                                        A          B         -              -
       Module (RITM)
8.6.2.5 Load Cart Assemblies                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.6.3 Modular Automatic Test Equipment
      (MATE) Software
8.6.3.1 TISS MATE Operating System (                                                                                           -         -         -              -
       MS-DOS)
8.6.3.2 MATE Test Executive (MTE)                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.6.4 Perform
8.6.4.1 Confidence (CNF) Test/Internal            *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
       Self-Test (IST)
8.6.4.2 Confidence Performance                    *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
       Diagnostics (CPD)
8.6.4.3 PLC                                       *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
8.6.4.4 180 Day Calibration                               *                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.6.4.5 Software Maintenance                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.6.5 Isolate/Repair RF Console                                                                                               2b         -         -              -
      Malfunctions
8.6.6 Perform Required Inspections                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.6.7 Use TISS Utility Programs

                                                                 106
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.6.7.1 Debug                                                                                                                 2b         -         -              -
8.6.7.2 Bustalk                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.7.3 Signal Path Trace                                                                                                     2b         -         -              -
8.6.7.4 RF Utility                                *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
8.6.8 Use TISS Data Display (TDD)                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.6.9 TISS LRU/SRUs TR: TOs 1F-15A-2-
      99GS-00-1, 1F-15A-2-99GS-00-2 (S)
8.6.9.1 AN/ALR-56A/C System TR: TOs
        12P3-2ALR56-18 series, 12P3-
        2ALR56-22 (S), 12P3-2ALR56-38
        series, 12P3-2ALR56-78 series,
        12P3-2ALR56-98 series, 12P3-
        2ALR56-118 series, 12P3-2ALR56-
        128 series, 12P3-2ALR56-138 series
8.6.9.1.1 Low-Band Receiver/Processor
          Pacer Turbo (LRU-3AI)
8.6.9.1.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.1.2 Operational Check                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.1.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.1.4 Program/Reprogram TR: TO                                                                                           -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALR56-78-6
8.6.9.1.2 High Band Receiver (LRU-6A)
8.6.9.1.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.2.2 Operational Check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.2.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.3 Power Supply (LRU-2A)
8.6.9.1.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.3.2 Operational Check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.3.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.4 TEWS Display (LRU-9A)
8.6.9.1.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.4.2 Operational Check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.4.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.5 Low-Band Receiver/ (LRU-3C)
8.6.9.1.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.5.2 Operational Check                     *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.5.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.6 High-Band Receiver (LRU-6C)
8.6.9.1.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.6.2 Operational Check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.6.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.7 Power Supply Processor (LRU-
          2C)
8.6.9.1.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.7.2 Operational Check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.7.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.7.4 Program/Reprogram TR: TO                                                                                           -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALR56-128-2
8.6.9.1.8 Band 1.5 TR: TO 12P3-
          2ALQ135-12
                                                                 107
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.6.9.1.8.1 Control Oscillator TR: TO
            12P3-2ALQ135-18-12
8.6.9.1.8.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.8.1.2 Operational Check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.8.1.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.8.2 RF Amplifier TR: TO 12 P3-
            2ALQ135-18-4
8.6.9.1.8.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.8.2.2 Operational Check                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.1.8.2.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.6.9.2 AN/ALQ-135 System (Band 1 and
        2) TR: TOs 12P3-2ALQ135-2 (S),
        12P3-2ALQ135-8 series
8.6.9.2.1 RF Amplifiers
8.6.9.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.2.1.2 Operational Check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.6.9.2.1.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.2.2 Control Oscillators
8.6.9.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.2.2.2 Operational Check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.6.9.2.2.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.2.3 Tuning Units
8.6.9.2.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.2.3.2 Operational Check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.6.9.2.3.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.6.9.3 AN/ALQ-135 System Band 3 TR:
        TO 12P3-2ALQ135-12
8.6.9.3.1 Control Oscillators TR: TO 12P3-
          2ALQ135-18-8
8.6.9.3.1.1 Theory of operation TR: TO                                                                                         -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALQ135-12
8.6.9.3.1.2 Operational Check TR: TO              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALQ135-18-8
8.6.9.3.1.3 Troubleshoot/repair TR: TO                                                                                         -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALQ135-12
8.6.9.3.2 RF Amplifiers TR: TO 12P3-
          2ALQ135-18-4
8.6.9.3.2.1 Theory of operation TR: TO                                                                                         -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALQ135-12
8.6.9.3.2.2 Operational Check TR: TO              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALQ135-18-4
8.6.9.3.2.3 Troubleshoot/Repair TR: TO                                                                                         -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALQ135-12
8.6.9.3.3 Repeater Tuning Unit TR: TO
          12P3-2ALQ135-18-9
8.6.9.3.3.1 Theory of operation TR: TO                                                                                         -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALQ135-12-1
8.6.9.3.3.2 Operational Check TR: TO                                                                                           -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALQ135-18-9


                                                                 108
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.6.9.3.3.3 Troubleshoot/Repair TR: TO                                                                                         -         -         -              -
            12P3-2ALQ135-12-1
8.6.9.3.4 Program AN/ALQ-135 PROMS                                                                                             -         -         -              -
          TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ135-8-61
8.6.9.4 AN/ALQ-128 System
        Receiver/Transmitter (LRU-201) TR:
        TOs 12P3-2ALQ128-2 (S), 12P3-
        2ALQ128-48 series
8.6.9.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.6.9.4.2 Operational Check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.6.9.4.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.6.9.5 TEWS Integration TR: TOs 1F-                                                                                           -         -         -              -
        15A-2-99GS-00-1, 1F-15A-2-99GS-
        00-2 (S)
8.7 AN/GSM-397 ELECTRONIC
    SYSTEMS TEST SET (ESTS) TR:
    33D7-38-305 series TR: TO 33D7-38-
    305 series
8.7.1 Station Configuration
8.7.1.1 Major Assemblies                                                                                                       -        A          -              -
8.7.1.2 Peripheral Equipment                                                                                                   -        A          -              -
8.7.2 Theory of Operation
8.7.2.1 System Controller                                                                                                      -        A          -              -
8.7.2.2 VXI Chassis                                                                                                            -        A          -              -
8.7.2.3 AC Power Equipment Assembly                                                                                            -        -          -              -
8.7.2.4 DC Power Equipment Assembly                                                                                            -        -          -              -
8.7.2.5 RF Equipment Assemblies                                                                                                -        A          -              -
8.7.3 Station Signal Flow
8.7.3.1 Power Path                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
8.7.3.2 MXI Bus Path                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
8.7.3.3 IEEE Bus Path                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
8.7.3.4 RF Path                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.7.4 Station Operation
8.7.4.1 Use ESTS Menu System                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.4.2 Use UNIX commands                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
8.7.4.3 Load Operating System                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.4.4 Load TPS                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
8.7.4.5 Perform Confidence Test                   *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.7.4.6 Station Calibration                               *                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.7.4.7 Fault Isolation/Detection                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.7.4.8 Perform Required Inspections              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.7.4.9 Optical Measurement System
        (OMS)
8.7.4.9.1 Perform Calibration                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.4.10 Transfer OFP/PFM data from                                                                                            -         -         -              -
        MDDEWS
8.7.4.11 Perform OFP file conversion                                                                                           -         -         -              -
        utility



                                                                 109
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.7.5 ESTS LRU/SRUs TR: TOs 1F-15A-
      2-99GS-00-1, 1F-15A-2-99GS-00-2
      (S)
8.7.5.1 Multipurpose Display Processor
        (MPDP) TR: TOs 11F47-13-14-8-20,
        11F47-13-14-2
8.7.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.1.2 Operational Check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.7.5.1.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.2 Analog to Digital Converter (038)
        TR: TOs 12P2-2APG70-48-37,
        12P2-2APG70-42
8.7.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.2.2 Operational Check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.7.5.2.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.3 Radio Frequency Oscillator (RFO)
        TR: TOs 12P2-2APG63-78-10,
        12P2-2APG63-72
8.7.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.3.2 Operational Check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.7.5.3.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.4 Multipurpose Display Unit (MPD)
        TR: TO 11F47-13-15-8-8, 11F47-13-
        15-2
8.7.5.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.4.2 Operational Check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.7.5.4.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.5 Radar Receiver (022) TR: TO 12P2-
        2APG63-18-10, 12P2-2APG63-12
8.7.5.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.5.2 Operational Check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.7.5.5.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.6 Heads Up Display (HUD) TR: TO
        5N29-8-28-11, 5N29-8-2
8.7.5.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.6.2 Operational Check                       *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.7.5.6.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.7 Wide Field of View HUD TR: TO
        5N29-18-20, 5N29-18-2
8.7.5.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.7.2 Operational Check                       *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.7.5.7.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.8 Radar Receiver Exciter (025) TR:
        TO 12P2-2APG70-8-13, 12P2-
        2APG70-2
8.7.5.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.8.2 Operational Check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.7.5.8.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.9 Air Data Computer (ADC) TR: TO
        5F5-4-25-8-20, 5F5-4-25-2
                                                                 110
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.7.5.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.9.2 Operational Check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.7.5.9.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.10 Analog Radar Target Data
        Processor (039) TR: TO 12P2-
        2APG63-58-11, 12P2-2APG63-52
8.7.5.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.10.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.10.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.11 Digital Radar Processor (044) TR:
        TO 12P2-2APG70-38-14, 12P2-
        2APG70-32
8.7.5.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.11.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.11.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.12 Radar Data Processor (081) TR:
        TO 12P2-2APG63-38-54, 12P2-
        2APG63-32
8.7.5.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.12.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.12.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.12.4 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.13 Radar Data Processor (082) TR:
        TO 12P2-2APG70-28-13, 12P2-
        2APG70-22
8.7.5.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.13.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.13.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.13.4 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.14 Automatic Direction Finder (ADF)
        Control Amp TR: TO 12R5-2ARD-
        108-2, 12R5-2ARD-102
8.7.5.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.14.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.14.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.15 Avionics Interface Unit (AIU) #1
        TR: TO 11F1-ASQ195-38-1, 11F1-
        2ASQ-195-2
8.7.5.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.15.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.15.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.15.4 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.16 Avionics Interface Unit (AIU) #2
        TR: TO 11F1-ASQ195-48-1, 11F1-
        ASQ195-2
8.7.5.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.16.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.16.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.16.4 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -


                                                                 111
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.7.5.17 Air Navigational Multiple
       Indicator (ANMI) TR: TO 5F8-22-2-
       8-41, 5F8-22-3-2
8.7.5.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.17.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.17.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.18 Bit Control Panel TR: TO 5A13-5-
       15-8-9, 5A13-5-15-3
8.7.5.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.18.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.18.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.19 Dispensing Switch Assembly
       (DSA) TR: TO 12P3-2ALE45-28-3,
       12P3-2ALE45-2
8.7.5.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.19.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.19.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.20 Electronic Air Inlet Controller
       (EAIC) TR: TO 5F28-2-8-20, 5F28-
       2-2
8.7.5.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.20.2 Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.7.5.20.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.21 Electronic Control Amplifier
       (ECA) TR: TO 5A1-9-3-8-19, 5A1-
       9-3-2
8.7.5.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.21.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.21.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.22 Electronic Command Signal
       Programmer (ECSP) TR: TO 12P3-
       2ALE45-28-2, 12P3-2ALE45-2
8.7.5.22.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.22.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.22.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.22.4 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.23 Engine Monitor Display TR: TO
       5E1-2-14-8-8, 5E1-2-14-2
8.7.5.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.23.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.23.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.23.4 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.24 Flight Control Computer (FCC)
       TR: TO 5A7-3-43-8-12, 5A7-3-43-2
8.7.5.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.24.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.24.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.25 Flight Data Adapter (FDA) TR:
       TO 5F8-16-7-28-3, 5F8-16-7-4
8.7.5.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
                                                                 112
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.7.5.25.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.25.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.26 Interference Blanker (IB) TR: TO
       12P4-2A-118-18, 12P4-2A-112
8.7.5.26.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.26.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.26.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.27 Integrated Communications
       Control Panel (ICCP) TR: TO 12R1-
       2ARA-118-1, 12S1-2ARA-102
8.7.5.27.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.27.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.27.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.28 Integrated Communications
       Control Panel Have Quick (ICCP
       HQ) TR: TO 12S1-2ARA-102
8.7.5.28.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.28.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.28.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.29 Intercommunications Set (ICSCP)
       TR: TO 12R2-4-280-8-13, 12R2-4-
       280-2
8.7.5.29.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.29.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.29.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.30 Identify Friend or Foe Control
       Panel (IFF CP)TR: TO 12S1-2A-
       108-28, 12S1-2A-102
8.7.5.30.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.30.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.30.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.31 Instrument Landing System (ILS)
       Receiver TR: TO 12R5-2ARN109-8-
       1, 12R5-2ARN-422
8.7.5.31.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.31.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.31.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.32 Radar Target Data Processor
       Interrogator Reply Evaluator (IRE)
       TR: TO 12P4-2APX-218-3-1, 12PR-
       2APX-212
8.7.5.32.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.32.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.32.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.33 Multipurpose Color Display
       (MPCD)TR: TO 11F47-13-10-8-2,
       11F47-13-10-2
8.7.5.33.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.33.2 Operational Check                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.7.5.33.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
                                                                 113
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.7.5.34 Navigational Control Indicator
       (NCI) TR: TO 5N8-16-2-8-8, 5N1-3-
       24-2
8.7.5.34.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.34.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.34.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.35 Programmable Armament Control
       Set Converter Programmer (PACS
       C/P)TR: TO 11B13-4-10-8-2,
       11B13-4-10-2
8.7.5.35.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.35.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.35.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.35.4 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.36 Pitch Computer TR: TO 5A7-3-30-
       8-12, 5A1-2-43-2
8.7.5.36.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.36.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.36.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.37 Programmable Signal Data
       Processor (PSDP) TR: TO 5A46-2-3-
       8-23, 5A46-2-3-2
8.7.5.37.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.37.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.37.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.37.4 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.38 Radar Set Control TR: TO 12P2-
       2APG63-68-2, 12P2-2APG63-62
8.7.5.38.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.38.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.38.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.39 Radar Set Control (MSIP/70) TR:
       TO 12P2-2APG70-58-1, 12P2-
       2APG70-52
8.7.5.39.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.39.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.39.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.40 Roll/Yaw Computer TR: TO 5A7-
       3-31-8-12, 5A1-2-43-2
8.7.5.40.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.40.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.40.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.41 TACAN Mount TR: TO 12R5-
       2ARN118-8-1, 12R5-4-106-13
8.7.5.41.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.41.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.41.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.42 Upfront Control Panel (UFCP) TR:
       TO 12R5-4-222-8-3, 12R5-4-222-3
8.7.5.42.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
                                                                 114
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.7.5.42.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.42.3 Troubleshoot/repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.43 VCC/VCC+TR: TO 5N5-19-2-8-
       16
8.7.5.43.1 Load/Verify OFP                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
8.7.5.44 Digital Radar Signal Processor
       (042) TR: TO 12P2-2APG63-98-22,
       12P2-2APG63-102
8.7.5.44.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.44.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.44.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.45 Heads-up Display Signal Data
       Processor (HUD/SDP) TR: TO
       5N29-8-18-21, 5N29-8-2
8.7.5.45.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.45.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.45.3 Troubleshoot/Repair                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.46 Embedded GPS Inertial (EGI)
       5N1-4-22-18-1
8.7.5.46.1 Theory Of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.46.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.46.3 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.47 Air Data Processor (ADP) TR: TO
       5F5-4-47-8-1
8.7.5.47.1 Theory Of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.47.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.47.3 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.7.5.48 Digital Mapping System (DMS)
       TR: TO 12P5-4-87-8-8
8.7.5.48.1 Theory Of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.7.5.48.2 Operational Check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.7.5.48.3 Program/Re-Program                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.8 CRYPTO SYSTEMS (C)
8.8.1 Transponder Computer (KIT) TR: TO
      KAM-225/TSEC (C)
8.8.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.8.1.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
8.8.1.3 Troubleshoot Malfunctions                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.8.1.4 Repair                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.8.2 Interrogator Computer (KIR) TR: TO
      KAM-225/TSEC (C)
8.8.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.8.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
8.8.2.3 Troubleshoot Malfunctions                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.8.2.4 Repair                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.8.3 TSEC/ST-21 Test Set TR: TO SAM-
      22B/TSEC (C)
8.8.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.8.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
8.8.3.3 Troubleshoot Malfunctions                                                                                              -         -         -              -
                                                                 115
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.8.3.4 Repair                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.8.4 Secure Voice (KY-58) TR: TOs
      KAM-337A/TSEC (C), KAM-
      339A/TSEC (C)
8.8.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.8.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                             -         -         -              -
8.8.4.3 Troubleshoot Malfunctions                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.8.4.4 Repair                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.9 IDENTIFICATION FRIEND OR FOE
    (IFF) TRANSPONDER SYSTEM AND
    IFF TEST EQUIPMENT GROUP TR:
    TOs 00-25-234, 12P4-2APX-142,
    12P4-2APX-192, 12P4-2APX-202,
    12P4-2APX64-2, 12P4-2APX64-2CL-
    1, 33A1-3-358-1, 33A1-3-358-11,
    33A1-3- 426-1-1, 33A1-3-426-1-2,
    33A1-8-468-1, 33D9-44-4-2
8.9.1 Control Box
8.9.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.9.1.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.9.1.3 Troubleshoot Malfunctions                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.9.1.4 Repair                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.9.2 Receiver-Transmitter
8.9.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
8.9.2.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.9.2.3 Troubleshoot Malfunctions                                                                                              -         -         -              -
8.9.2.4 Repair                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
8.9.2.5 Align                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
8.10 DATA LINK SYSTEM AND DATA
    LINK EQUIPMENT GROUP
8.10.1 Television Receiver Transmitter
      POD RT-1210/AXQ-14 TR: TO
      11F34-4-4-2
8.10.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.10.1.2 Perform 180-Day Preventive                                                                                            -         -         -              -
       Maintenance Inspection
8.10.1.3 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.10.1.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
8.10.1.5 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.10.2 Multifunctional Information
      Distribution System-Low Volume
      Terminal (MIDS-LVT)
8.10.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.10.2.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.10.2.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
8.10.2.4 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.10.3 Fighter Data Link (FDL)
8.10.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.10.3.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.10.3.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
                                                                 116
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-15 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

8.10.3.4 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.10.4 Situation Awareness Data Link
     (SADL)
8.10.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.10.4.2 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.10.4.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
8.10.4.4 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.10.5 Aircraft Simulator OQ-283/GJM-59
     TR: TO 33D7-88-14-1
8.10.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.10.5.2 Verification and Calibration                                                                                          -         -         -              -
8.10.5.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
8.10.5.4 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.10.6 Weapon Data Link Simulator OH-
     55/GJM-59 TR: TO 33D7-88-14-1
8.10.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.10.6.2 Verification and Calibration                                                                                          -         -         -              -
8.10.6.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
8.10.6.4 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.10.7 ZSW-1 Data Link Pod, RT-
     1624/ZSW-1 TR: TO 11B34-3-2-2
8.10.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
8.10.7.2 Perform 180-day Preventive                                                                                            -         -         -              -
       Maintenance Inspection
8.10.7.3 Perform Operational Checks                                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.10.7.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
8.10.7.5 Repair                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
8.11 GMRCCTS Test Set, TS-4395/ZSM-1
   TR: TO 33D5-42-24-1
8.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
8.11.2 Verification and Calibration                                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.11.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
8.11.4 Repair                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -




                                                                 117
                                                                                                                            Attachment 8
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9. ATTACHMENT 9, F-16 TRAINING
  REQUIREMENTS
9.1 F-16 AVIONICS INTERMEDIATE
    SHOPS (AIS) AND IMPROVED AIS
    (IAIS)
9.1.1 AIS COMMON TEST STATION
      COMPONENTS
9.1.1.1 Theory of Operation
9.1.1.1.1 Computer subsystem and                                                                                               -         -         -              -
         Peripherals TR: TOs 33D7-38-108
         series, 33D7-47-115-1, 33DA7-77-
         1, 33DA104-10-series
9.1.1.1.2 Test station power/cooling TR:                                                                                       -         -         -              -
         TOs 33D7-38-111-1-series, 33D7-
         38-111-51-series, 33D7-38-111-81-
         series, applicable test station TOs
9.1.1.1.3 Switching Unit Measurement and
         Stimulus Subsystem (SUMSS)TR:
         TOs 33D7-38-111-1-series, 33D7-
         38-111-51-series, 33D7-38-111-81-
         series, applicable test station TOs
9.1.1.1.3.1 Switching CCA groups                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.1.1.1.3.2 Measurement (MSS) and                                                                                              -         -         -              -
           Analog Interface Unit (AIU)
           CCA groups
9.1.1.1.3.3 Stimulus CCA group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.1.1.1.3.4 Digital Interface Unit (DIU)                                                                                       -         -         -              -
           CCA group
9.1.1.1.3.5 Synchro/Resolver CCA group                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.1.1.1.3.6 Programmable Processor                                                                                             -         -         -              -
           Control (PPC) CCA group
9.1.1.1.3.7 Power/cooling CCA groups                                                                                           -         -         -              -
9.1.1.1.4 LRU power/cooling subsystems                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.1.1.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions
9.1.1.2.1 Computer subsystem and                                                                                               -         -         -              -
         peripherals
9.1.1.2.2 Test station power/cooling                                                                                           -         -         -              -
9.1.1.2.3 SUMSS TR: TOs 33D7-38-111-1-
         series, 33D7-38-111-51-series,
         33D7-38-111-81-series, applicable
         test station TOs
9.1.1.2.3.1 Switching CCA group                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.1.1.2.3.2 MSS and AIU CCA groups                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.1.1.2.3.3 Stimulus CCA group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.1.1.2.3.4 DIU CCA group                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
9.1.1.2.3.5 Synchro/resolver CCA group                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.1.1.2.3.6 PPC CCA group                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
9.1.1.2.3.7 Power/cooling CCA groups                                                                                           -         -         -              -
9.1.1.2.4 LRU Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                         -         -         -              -
         TR: applicable test station -2 TOs

                                                                 118
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.2 AIS COMMON TEST STATION
    PROCEDURES TR: 33D7-38-111-1-
    series, 33D7-38-111-81-series,
    applicable test station TOs
9.2.1 Operating Procedures
9.2.1.1 Perform Turn-on Procedures                *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.2.1.2 Perform Standby Procedure                 *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.2.1.3 Perform Shutdown Procedures               *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.2.1.4 Perform Operator Inspection               *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.2.1.5 Perform periodic inspections
9.2.1.5.1 30 day                                  *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.2.1.5.2 180 day                                         *                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.2.1.5.3 360 day                                         *                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.2.2 Perform semi-automatic tests
9.2.2.1 CONF                                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.2.2.2 DIAG                                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.2.2.3 ALIN                                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.2.2.4 CALS                                              *                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.2.3 Emergency Shutdown                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.2.4 Classified Pre/Post Processing              *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.2.5 Perform manual alignment and
      adjustment of:
9.2.5.1 SUMSS Shop Replaceable Units                                                                                           -         -         -              -
        (SRUs)
9.2.5.2 LRU power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
9.2.5.3 Electrical connector receptacle
        housing receiver pins and contacts
        (Virginia Patch Panel)
9.2.5.3.1 Alignment of Virginia Patch Panel                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3 COMPUTER/INERTIAL (C/I) TEST
    STATION
9.3.1 Peculiar ATLAS statements TR: TOs                                                                                        -         -         -              -
      33D7-38-111-8-1, 33D7-38-111-71-1,
      33D7-38-111-82, 33D7-38-111-88-1
9.3.2 Peculiar subsystems TR: TOs 33D7-
      3-181 series, 33D7-3-192-series,
      33D7-3-279 series
9.3.2.1 Theory of operation of:
9.3.2.1.1 Self Test Adapter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3.2.1.2 TRUs
9.3.2.1.2.1 Inertial Navigation Unit (INU)                                                                                     -         -         -              -
            pedestal Subsystem
9.3.2.1.2.2 Rate Table                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.3.2.1.2.3 Rate Table Controller                                                                                              -         -         -              -
9.3.2.1.2.4 A/D Converter                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
9.3.2.1.2.5 16 Channel Filter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.2.1.2.6 Digital Multimeter                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.3.2.1.2.7 Dual Trace Oscilloscope                                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.3.2.1.3 SUMSS SRUs
9.3.2.1.3.1 INU/FCC Interface CCA group                                                                                        -         -         -              -
                                                                 119
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.3.2.1.3.2 Processor/Controller Interface                                                                                     -         -         -              -
            CCA group
9.3.2.1.3.3 DAC CCA group                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
9.3.2.1.3.4 Discrete I/O CCA group                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.3.2.1.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.3.2.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions
9.3.2.2.1 Self Test Adapter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3.2.2.2 TRUs
9.3.2.2.2.1 INU pedestal                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.3.2.2.2.2 Rate Table                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.3.2.2.2.3 Rate Table Controller                                                                                              -         -         -              -
9.3.2.2.2.4 A/D Converter                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
9.3.2.2.2.5 16 Channel Filter                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.2.2.2.6 Digital Multimeter                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.3.2.2.2.7 Dual Trace Oscilloscope                                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.3.2.3 Perform manual alignment and
        adjustment of:
9.3.2.3.1 TRUs
9.3.2.3.1.1 INU pedestal                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.3.2.3.1.2 Rate Table                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.3.2.3.1.3 Rate Table Controller                                                                                              -         -         -              -
9.3.2.3.1.4 A/D Converter                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
9.3.2.3.1.5 Digital Multimeter                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.3.2.3.2 SUMSS SRUs
9.3.2.3.2.1 INU/FCC Interface CCA group                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.3.2.3.2.2 Processor/Controller Interface                                                                                     -         -         -              -
            CCA group
9.3.2.3.2.3 DAC CCA group                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
9.3.2.3.2.4 Discrete I/O CCA group                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.3.2.3.3 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.3.2.4 Perform CALS and adjustments
9.3.2.4.1 DMM                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.3 C/I LRU and ITA maintenance
9.3.3.1 Singer INU TR: TOs 5N1-4-11-
        series, 33D7-50-278-series, 33D7-
        50-279-series, 33D7-50-1135-series
9.3.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.3.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3.3.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.3.3.2 Fire Control Navigation Panel
        (FCNP)TR: TOs 5N14-3-15-series,
        33D7-50-279-series, 33D7-50-1135-
        series
9.3.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.3.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3.3.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -




                                                                 120
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.3.3.3 Fire Control Computer (FCC),
        Expanded FCC (XFCU), and
        Enhanced FCC(EFCC), and EEFCC
        TR: TOs 11F12-1-series 33D7-50-
        284-series, 33D7-50-663-series TOs
        11F12-1-series 33D7-50-284-series,
        33D7-50-663-ser
9.3.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.3.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.3.3.4 Data Transfer Unit (DTU) TR: TOs
        12S2-4-13-series, 33D7-24-29-series,
        33D7-50-1027-series
9.3.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.3.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3.3.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.3.3.5 Data Transfer Cartridge (DTC)and
        Expanded Data Transfer Cartridge
        (XDTC), and MDTC TR: TOs 12S2-
        4-11-series, 33D7-24-29-series,
        33D7-50-1027-series
9.3.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.3.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3.3.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.3.3.6 Flight Control Panel (FLCP) TR:
        TOs 5A13-5-20-series, 33D7-50-
        358-series
9.3.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.3.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3.3.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.3.3.7 Rate Gyro Assembly (RGA)TR:
        TOs 5A11-2-77-series, 33D7-50-
        358-series
9.3.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.3.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3.3.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.3.3.8 Accelerometer Assembly TR: TOs
        5F2-33-series, 33D7-50-358-series
9.3.3.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.3.8.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.3.3.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.3.3.9 Flight Control Computer (FLCC)
        TR: TOs 5A7-3-38-series, 33D7-50-
        286-series
9.3.3.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.3.3.9.2 Operational check                       *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.3.3.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.3.3.10 Electronic Component Assembly
        (ECA)TR: TOs 5F22-16-series,
        33D7-50-288-series

                                                                 121
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.3.3.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.3.3.10.2 Operational check                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.3.3.10.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.3.3.11 Data Entry Electronics Unit
        (DEEU), Enhanced Memory
        Extended Capabilities DEEU
        (EXDEEU) TR: TOs 12S2-4-10-
        series, 33D7-50-666-series
9.3.3.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.3.3.11.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.3.3.11.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.3.3.12 Data Entry Display (DED) TR:
        TOs 12S2-4-9-series, 33D7-50-666-
        series
9.3.3.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.3.3.12.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.3.3.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.3.3.13 Litton INU TR: TOs 5N1-4-15-
        series, 33D7-50-278-series,33D7-50-
        1135-series
9.3.3.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.3.3.13.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.3.3.13.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.3.3.14 Digital Flight Control Computer
        (DFLCC) TR: TOs 5A7-3-44-series,
        33D7-50-1663-series
9.3.3.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.3.3.14.2 Operational check                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.3.3.14.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.3.3.15 General Avionics Computer
        (GAC) TR: TOs 11F13-14-9-series,
        33D7-50-1362-series
9.3.3.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.3.3.15.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.3.3.15.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.3.3.16 Modular Mission Computer
        (MMC)
9.3.3.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.3.3.16.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.3.3.16.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.4 DISPLAYS/INDICATORS (D/I) TEST
    STATION
9.4.1 Peculiar ATLAS statements TR: TOs                                                                                        -         -         -              -
      33D7-38-111-8-1, 33D7-38-111-71-1,
      33D7-38-111-82, 33D7-38-111-88-1
9.4.2 Peculiar subsystems TR: TOs 33D7-
      38-183-series, 33D7-77-32-series,
      33D7-77-71-series
9.4.2.1 Theory of operation of:
9.4.2.1.1 Self Test Adapter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -

                                                                 122
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.4.2.1.2 TRUs
9.4.2.1.2.1 Photometric Assembly                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.4.2.1.2.2 Precision Programmable                                                                                             -         -         -              -
            Current Source (PPCS)
9.4.2.1.2.3 Raster Display Assembly                                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.4.2.1.2.4 Video Display Monitor                                                                                              -         -         -              -
9.4.2.1.3 SUMSS SRUs
9.4.2.1.3.1 Discrete I/O CCA group                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.4.2.1.3.2 D/I test CCA group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.4.2.1.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.4.2.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions
9.4.2.2.1 Self Test Adapter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.4.2.2.2 TRUs
9.4.2.2.2.1 Photometric Assembly                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.4.2.2.2.2 PPCS                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.4.2.2.2.3 Raster Display Assembly                                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.4.2.2.2.4 Video Display Monitor                                                                                              -         -         -              -
9.4.2.2.3 SUMSS SRUs
9.4.2.2.3.1 Discrete I/O CCA group                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.4.2.2.3.2 D/I test CCA group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.4.2.2.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.4.2.3 Perform manual alignment and
        adjustment of:
9.4.2.3.1 TRUs
9.4.2.3.1.1 Photometric Assembly                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.4.2.3.1.2 PPCS                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.4.2.3.1.3 Raster Display Assembly                                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.4.2.3.1.4 Video Display Monitor                                                                                              -         -         -              -
9.4.2.3.2 SUMSS SRUs
9.4.2.3.2.1 Discrete I/O CCA group                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.4.2.3.2.2 D/I test CCA group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.4.2.3.3 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.4.2.4 Calibrate and adjustment of:
9.4.2.4.1 Photometric Assembly                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.4.3 D/I LRU and ITA maintenance
9.4.3.1 Head-Up Display Pilot s Display
        Unit (HUD PDU) TR: TOs 5N29-11-
        series, 33D7-50-291-series
9.4.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.4.3.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.4.3.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.4.3.2 Head-Up Display Electronics Unit
        (HUD EU) TR: TOs 5N29-12-series,
        33D7-50-263-series
9.4.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.4.3.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.4.3.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -



                                                                 123
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.4.3.3 Radar Electro Optical Indicator Unit
        (REO IU)TR: TOs 12P1-4-22-series,
        33D7-50-292-series
9.4.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.4.3.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.4.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.4.3.4 Radar Electro Optical Electronic
        Unit (REO EU) TR: TOs 12P1-4-23-
        series, 33D7-50-273-series
9.4.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.4.3.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.4.3.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.4.3.5 Attitude Director Indicator (ADI)
        TR: TOs 5F8-3-44-series, 33D7-50-
        290-series
9.4.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.4.3.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.4.3.6 Horizontal Situation Indicator
        (HSI)TR: TOs 5F8-16-9-18-1, 33D7-
        50-290-series
9.4.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.4.3.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.4.3.7 Azimuth Indicator (ALR-69) TR:
        TOs 12P3-2ALR-8-1, 33D7-50-401-
        series
9.4.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.4.3.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.4.3.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.4.3.8 Programmable Display Generator
        (PDG), Upgraded PDG (UPDG), and
        XPDG TR: TOs 11F98-7-series,
        33D7-50-665-series
9.4.3.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.4.3.8.2 Operational check                   *                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.4.3.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.4.3.9 Multifunction Display (MFD) TR:
        TOs 11F98-6-series, 33D7-50-664-
        series
9.4.3.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.4.3.9.2 Operational check                   *                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.4.3.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.4.3.10 Wide Angle Conventional Head-
        Up Display Unit (WAC HUD)TR:
        TOs 5N29-14-series, 33D7-50-668-
        series
9.4.3.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.4.3.10.2 Operational check                 *R                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.4.3.10.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -



                                                                 124
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.4.3.11 WAC Display Electronic Unit
        (WAC EU)TR: TOs 5N29-15-series,
        33D7-50-669-series
9.4.3.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.4.3.11.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.4.3.11.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.4.3.12 Diffractive Optics Electronic Unit
        (DO EU) TR: TOs 5N29-15-series,
        33D7-50-669-series
9.4.3.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.4.3.12.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.4.3.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.4.3.13 Diffractive Optics Head-Up
        Display Unit (DO HUD DU) TR:
        TOs 5N29-20-series, 33D7-50-668-
        series
9.4.3.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.4.3.13.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.4.3.13.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.4.3.14 Calibrate HUD boresight fixture                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.5 PROCESSOR/ PNEUMATIC (P/P)
    TEST STATION
9.5.1 Peculiar ATLAS statements TR: TOs                                                                                        -         -         -              -
      33D7-38-111-8-1, 33D7-38-111-71-1,
      33D7-38-111-82, 33D7-38-111-88-1
9.5.2 Peculiar subsystems TR: TOs 33D7-
      3-180-series, 33D7-3-191-series,
      33D7-3-282-series, 33D7-38-185-
      series
9.5.2.1 Theory of operation of:
9.5.2.1.1 Self Test Adapter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.5.2.1.2 TRUs
9.5.2.1.2.1 Threat Simulator                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.2.1.2.2 Video Display Monitor                                                                                              -         -         -              -
9.5.2.1.2.3 Pneumatic Function Controllers                                                                                     -         -         -              -
            (PFCs) and Pneumatic Load
            Assembly
9.5.2.1.2.4 Vacuum Pump and Manifold                                                                                           -         -         -              -
            Assembly
9.5.2.1.3 SUMSS SRUs
9.5.2.1.3.1 P/P Test CCA group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.2.1.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.5.2.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions
9.5.2.2.1 Self Test Adapter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.5.2.2.2 TRUs
9.5.2.2.2.1 Threat Simulator                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.2.2.2.2 Video Display Monitor                                                                                              -         -         -              -
9.5.2.2.2.3 PFCs/Pneumatic Load                                                                                                -         -         -              -
            Assembly


                                                                 125
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.5.2.2.2.4 Vacuum Pump and Manifold                                                                                           -         -         -              -
            Assembly
9.5.2.2.3 SUMSS SRUs
9.5.2.2.3.1 P/P Test CCA group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.2.2.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.5.2.3 Perform periodic inspections
9.5.2.3.1 90 day                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.5.2.4 Perform manual alignment and
        adjustment of:
9.5.2.4.1 TRUs
9.5.2.4.1.1 Threat Simulator                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.2.4.1.2 Video Display Monitor                                                                                              -         -         -              -
9.5.2.4.1.3 Vacuum Pump and Manifold                                                                                           -         -         -              -
            Assembly
9.5.2.4.2 SUMSS SRUs
9.5.2.4.2.1 P/P Test CCA group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.2.4.3 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.5.2.5 Calibrate and Adjust
9.5.2.5.1 PFCs                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3 P/P LRU and ITA maintenance
9.5.3.1 Radar Digital Signal Processor
        (AN/APG-66)TR: TOs 11F101-3-
        series, 33D7-50-276-series
9.5.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.5.3.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.5.3.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.5.3.2 Expanded Fire Control Radar
        Computer (XFCRC) (AN/APG-
        66)TR: TOs 11F12-5-11-series,
        33D7-50-274-series
9.5.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.5.3.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.5.3.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.5.3.3 Stores Control Panel TR: TOs
        11B61-2-12-series, 33D7-50-264-
        series
9.5.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.5.3.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.5.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.5.3.4 Missile Remote Interface Unit
        (MRIU)TR: TOs 11B95-5-series,
        33D7-50-272-series
9.5.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.5.3.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.5.3.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.5.3.5 Expanded Central Interface Unit
        (XCIU)TR: TOs 11B7-7-2-series,
        33D7-50-275-series
9.5.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.5.3.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
                                                                 126
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.5.3.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.5.3.6 Jettison/Release Remote Interface
        Unit (J/R RIU)TR: TOs 11B95-4-
        series, 33D7-50-272-series
9.5.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.5.3.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.5.3.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.5.3.7 Conventional Remote Interface Unit
        (CRIU)TR: TOs 11B95-6-series,
        33D7-50-272-series
9.5.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.5.3.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.5.3.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.5.3.8 Special Weapons Remote Interface
        Unit (NRIU)TR: TOs 11N-T5090-
        series, 11N-T5094-series
9.5.3.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.5.3.8.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.5.3.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.5.3.9 Ruggedized Nuclear Remote
        Interface Unit (RNRIU)TR: TOs
        11N-T5094-series, 11N-T5170-series
9.5.3.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.5.3.9.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.5.3.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.5.3.10 Pneumatic Sensor Assembly (PSA)
        (Rosemount)TR: TOs 5F25-9-series,
        -50-293-series
9.5.3.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.10.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.3.10.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.5.3.11 PSA (Airesearch)TR: TOs 5F25-
        12-series, 33D7-50-293-series
9.5.3.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.11.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.3.11.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.5.3.12 Central Air Data Computer
        (CADC)TR: TOs 5F5-4-28-series,
        33D7-50-262-series
9.5.3.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.12.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.3.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.5.3.13 Transmission Line Coupler
        (TLC)TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-42-
        series, 33D7-50-403-series
9.5.3.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.13.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.3.13.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -



                                                                 127
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.5.3.14 Signal Processor (SP) (AN/ALR-
       69)TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-series,
       33D7-50-403-series
9.5.3.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.14.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.3.14.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.5.3.15 Advanced Central Interface Unit
       (ACIU)TR: TOs 11B47-7-4-series,
       33D7-50-670-series
9.5.3.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.15.2 Operational check                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.5.3.15.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.5.3.16 Enhanced Central Interface Unit
       (ECIU)TR: TOs 11B95-12-series,
       33D7-50-670-series
9.5.3.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.16.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.3.16.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.5.3.17 Advanced Missile Remote
       Interface Unit (AMRIU)TR: TOs
       11B95-10-series, 33D7-50-697-
       series
9.5.3.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.17.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.3.17.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.5.3.18 Enhanced Missile Remote
       Interface Unit (EMRIU)TR: TOs
       11B95-11-series, 33D7-50-697-
       series
9.5.3.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.18.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.3.18.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.5.3.19 Advanced Conventional Remote
       Interface Unit (ACRIU)TR: TOs
       11B95-8-series, 33D7-50-697-series
9.5.3.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.19.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.5.3.19.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.5.3.20 Programmable Signal Processor
       (PSP), and MPSP (AN/APG-
       68)series, 33D7-50-667-series
9.5.3.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.20.2 Operational check                      *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.5.3.20.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.5.3.21 Advanced Programmable Signal
       Processor (APSP) (AN/APG-68)TR:
       TOs 11F101-5-series, 33D7-50-667-
       series
9.5.3.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.5.3.21.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -

                                                                 128
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.5.3.21.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.6 RADIO FREQUENCY (RF) TEST
    STATION
9.6.1 Peculiar ATLAS statements TR: TOs
      33D7-38-111-8-1, 33D7-38-111-71-1,
      33D7-38-111-82, 33D7-38-111-88-1
9.6.2 Peculiar subsystemsTR: TOs 33D7-
      38-184-1, 33D7-38-248-1, 33DA57-3-
      1
9.6.2.1 Theory of operation of:
9.6.2.1.1 Self Test Adapter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.2.1.2 TRUs
9.6.2.1.2.1 Microwave Stimulus Interface                                                                                       -         -         -              -
           (MSI)
9.6.2.1.2.2 Microwave Measurement Unit                                                                                         -         -         -              -
           (MMU)
9.6.2.1.2.3 Phase Noise Chassis (PNC)                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.6.2.1.2.4 Synthesized Signal Generators                                                                                      -         -         -              -
           (SSGs)
9.6.2.1.2.5 RF Switch Panel                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.2.1.2.6 Power Meter Assembly                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.6.2.1.2.7 Pressure Test Set (PTS)                                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.6.2.1.3 SUMSS SRUs
9.6.2.1.3.1 R/F Test CCA group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.6.2.1.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.6.2.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions
9.6.2.2.1 Self Test Adapter                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.2.2.2 TRUs
9.6.2.2.2.1 MSI                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.6.2.2.2.2 MMU                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.6.2.2.2.3 PNC                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.6.2.2.2.4 SSGs                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.6.2.2.2.5 RF Switch Panel                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.2.2.2.6 Power Meter Assembly                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.6.2.2.2.7 PTS                                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.6.2.2.3 SUMSS SRUs
9.6.2.2.3.1 R/F Test CCA group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.6.2.2.4 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.6.2.3 Perform manual alignments and
        adjustments
9.6.2.3.1 SUMSS SRUs
9.6.2.3.1.1 R/F Test CCA Group                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.6.2.3.1.2 Power/cooling subsystems                                                                                           -         -         -              -
9.6.2.3.2 Perform Calibration and
          Adjustment
9.6.2.3.2.1 Power Meter                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.6.2.3.2.2 SSGs                                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.6.3 RF LRU and ITA Maintenance


                                                                 129
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.6.3.1 Radar Transmitter (AN/APG-
        66)TR: TOs 11F45-2-14-series,
        33D7-50-277-series
9.6.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.6.3.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.3.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.6.3.2 Radar Low Power RF (LPRF)
        (AN/APG-66) TR: TOs 11F45-2-15-
        series, 33D7-50-282-series
9.6.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.6.3.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.3.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.6.3.3 Radar Antenna (AN/APG-66)TR:
        TOs 11F5-29-series, 33D7-50-283-
        series
9.6.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.6.3.3.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.3.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.6.3.4 E-J Amplifier Detector (AM-
        6639/ALR-46)TR: TOs 12P3-
        2ALR46-18-1, 33D7-50-402-series
9.6.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.6.3.4.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.3.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.6.3.5 C-D Amplifier Detector (AM-
        6971/ALR-69)TR: TOs 12P3-
        2ALR69-68-1, 33D7-50-402-series
9.6.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.6.3.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.3.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.6.3.6 Frequency Selective Receiver
        System (FSRS) Receiver (ALR-69)
        TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-12(C),
        12P3-2ALR69-18-2, 33D7-50-402-
        series
9.6.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.6.3.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.3.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.6.3.7 FSRS Receiver/Controller (ALR-
        69)TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-12(C),
        12P3-2ALR69-28-2, 33D7-50-554-
        series
9.6.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.6.3.7.2 Operational check                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.6.3.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.6.3.8 Dual Mode Transmitter (DMT)
        (AN/APG-68)TR: TOs 11F45-2-16-
        series, 33D7-50-704-series
9.6.3.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.6.3.8.2 Operational check                       *                                                                            -         -         -              -

                                                                 130
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.6.3.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.6.3.9 Radar Modular Low Power RF
        (MLPRF) (AN/APG-68) TR: TOs
        11F45-2-17 series, 33D7-50-671-
        series
9.6.3.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.6.3.9.2 Operational check                       *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.6.3.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.6.3.10 Radar Antenna (AN/APG-68) TR:
        TOs 11F5-31-series, 33D7-50-944-
        series
9.6.3.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.6.3.10.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.6.3.10.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.6.3.11 Advanced IFF (AIFF) R/T TR:
        TOs 12P4-2APX109-series, 33D7-
        50-1699-series
9.6.3.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.6.3.11.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.6.3.11.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.6.3.12 IFF R/T (AN/APX-101) TR: TOs
        12P4-2APX101 series, 33D7-50-281
        series
9.6.3.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.6.3.12.2 Operational check                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.6.3.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.7 IAIS TEST STATION
9.7.1 Emergency Shutdown                                                                                                      1a         -         -              -
9.7.2 Classified Pre/Post Processing TR:          *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
      TO 33D7-38-291-2
9.7.3 Peculiar ATLAS statements TR: TO                                                                                         -        A          -              -
      33D7-38-291-18-2
9.7.4 Peculiar subsystems TR: TO 33D7-
      38-291 series
9.7.4.1 Theory of operation
9.7.4.1.1 Interface Unit (IU)                                                                                                  -        A          -              -
9.7.4.1.2 Control and Display Unit (CDU)                                                                                       -        A          -              -
9.7.4.1.3 Instrument Unit A (IUA)                                                                                              -        A          -              -
9.7.4.1.4 Instrument Unit B (IUB)                                                                                              -        A          -              -
9.7.4.1.5 Microwave Stimulus Unit (MSU)                                                                                        -        A          -              -
9.7.4.1.6 Microwave Measurement Unit                                                                                           -        A          -              -
          (MMU)
9.7.4.1.7 Power Control Unit (PCU)                                                                                             -        A          -              -
9.7.4.1.8 Power Supply Unit (PSU)                                                                                              -        A          -              -
9.7.4.1.9 Refrigeration Unit                                                                                                   -        A          -              -
9.7.4.1.10 Blower Unit                                                                                                         -        A          -              -
9.7.4.1.11 Frequency changer unit (FCU)                                                                                        -        A          -              -
9.7.4.1.12 Optical Test Bench (OTB)                                                                                            -        A          -              -
9.7.4.2 Isolate/repair malfunctions
9.7.4.2.1 IU                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
                                                                 131
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.7.4.2.2 CDU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.2.3 IUA                                                                                                                 2b         -         -              -
9.7.4.2.4 IUB                                                                                                                 2b         -         -              -
9.7.4.2.5 MSU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.2.6 MMU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.2.7 PCU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.2.8 PSU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.2.9 Refrigeration unit                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.7.4.2.10 Blower unit                                                                                                         -         -         -              -
9.7.4.2.11 FCU                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.2.12 OTB                                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.3 Perform semi-automatic tests
9.7.4.3.1 CONF                                    *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
9.7.4.3.2 DIAG                                    *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
9.7.4.3.3 ALIN                                    *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
9.7.4.3.4 CALS                                            *                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.7.4.4 Perform manual alignment and
        adjustment of:
9.7.4.4.1 IU                                                                                                                   -         -         -              -
9.7.4.4.2 IUA                                                                                                                 2b         -         -              -
9.7.4.4.3 IUB                                                                                                                 2b         -         -              -
9.7.4.4.4 PCU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.4.5 PSU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.4.6 Blower unit                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.7.4.4.7 FCU                                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.4.8 OTB                                     *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
9.7.4.5 IAIS LRU and ITA maintenance
9.7.4.5.1 Data Transfer Unit (DTU) TR:
          TOs 12S2-4-13-series, 33D7-50-
          1897-1
9.7.4.5.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.1.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.2 Expanded Data Transfer Cartridge
          (XDTC), and MDTC TR: TOs
          12S2-4-11-series, 33D7-50-1897-1
9.7.4.5.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.2.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.3 Flight Control Computer (FLCC)
          TR: TOs 5A7-3-38-series, 33D7-
          28-35-2, 33D7-50-1898-1
9.7.4.5.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.3.2 Operational check                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.4 Electronic Component Assembly
          (ECA) TR: TOs 5F22-16-series,
          33D7-28-35-2, 33D7-50-1900-1
9.7.4.5.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.4.2 Operational check                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
                                                                 132
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.7.4.5.4.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.5 Data Entry Electronics Unit
         (DEEU) and Enhanced Memory
         Extended Capabilities DEEU
         (EXDEEU) TR: TOs 12S2-4-10-
         series, 33D7-50-1907-1
9.7.4.5.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.5.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.6 Fire Control Computer (FCC),
         Enhanced Fire Control Computer
         (EFCC), Expanded FCC (XFCC),
         and EEFCC TR: TOs 11F12-1-
         series, 33D7-28-35-2, 33D7-50-
         1911-1
9.7.4.5.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.6.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.6.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.7 Digital Flight Control Computer
         (DFLCC) TR: TOs 5A7-3-44-
         series, 33D7-28-35-2, 33D7-50-
         1899-1
9.7.4.5.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.7.2 Operational check                     *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.7.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.8 General Avionics Computer
         (GAC) TR: TOs 11F13-14-9-
         series, 33D7-50-1901-1
9.7.4.5.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.8.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.8.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.9 Modular Mission Computer
         (MMC)
9.7.4.5.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.9.2 Operational check                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.9.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.10 Wide Angle Conventional Head-
         Up Display Unit (WAC HUD) TR:
         TOs 5N29-14-series, 33D7-50-
         1908-1
9.7.4.5.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.10.2 Operational check                  *R                                                                            2b         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.10.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.11 WAC Display Electronic Unit
         (WAC EU) TR: TOs 5N29-15-
         series, 33D7-28-35-2,33D7-50-
         1909-1
9.7.4.5.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.11.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.11.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -

                                                                 133
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.7.4.5.12 Diffractive Optics Electronic
         Unit (DO EU) TR: TOs 5N29-15-
         series, 33D7-50-1908-1
9.7.4.5.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.12.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.12.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.13 Diffractive Optics Head-Up
         Display Unit (DO HUD DU)TR:
         TOs 5N29-20-series, 33D7-50-
         1909-1
9.7.4.5.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.13.2 Operational check                  *R                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.13.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.13.4 Calibrate HUD Boresight                                                                                           -         -         -              -
           Fixture
9.7.4.5.14 Signal Processor (AN/ALR-
         69)TR: TOs 12P3-2ALR69-series,
         33D7-50-1970-1
9.7.4.5.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.14.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.14.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.15 Advanced Central Interface Unit
         (ACIU)TR: TOs 11B47-7-4-series,
         33D7-50-1910-1
9.7.4.5.15.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.15.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.15.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.16 Enhanced Central Interface Unit
         (ECIU)TR: TOs 11B95-12-series,
         33D7-50-1910-1
9.7.4.5.16.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.16.2 Operational check                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.16.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.17 Programmable Signal Processor
         (PSP) (AN/APG-68) TR: TOs
         11F101-5-series, 33D7-50-1902-1
9.7.4.5.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.17.2 Operational check                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.17.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.18 Advanced Programmable Signal
         Processor(APSP), and NPSP
         (AN/APG-68)TR: TOs 11F101-5-
         2-series, 33D7-50-1902-1
9.7.4.5.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.18.2 Operational check                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.18.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.19 Radar Modular Low Power RF
         (MLPRF) (AN/APG-68)TR: TOs
         11F45-2-17-series, 33D7-50-1904-
         1

                                                                 134
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.7.4.5.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.19.2 Operational check                    *                                                                           2b         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.19.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.20 Radar Antenna (AN/APG-
         68)TR: TOs 11F5-31-series, 33D7-
         50-1905-1
9.7.4.5.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.20.2 Operational check                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.20.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.21 Dual Mode Transmitter (DMT)
         (AN/APG-68)TR: TOs 11F45-2-
         16-series, 33D7-50-1906-1
9.7.4.5.21.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.21.2 Operational check                    *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.21.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.22 MIDS/LVT TR:TO 12R2-
         2USQ140-8-1, 33D7-50-2965-1
9.7.4.5.22.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.22.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.22.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.23 Advanced Conventional Remote
         Interface Unit (ACRIU)TR: TOs
         11B95-8-series, 33D7-50-697-
         series
9.7.4.5.23.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.23.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.23.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.24 Advanced Missile Remote
         Interface Unit (AMRIU) TR: TOs
         11B95-10-series, 33D7-50-697-
         series
9.7.4.5.24.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.24.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.24.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.25 Jettison/Release Remote
         Interface Unit (J/R RIU) TR: TOs
         11B95-4-series, 33D7-50-272-
         series
9.7.4.5.25.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.25.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.25.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.26 Flight Control Panel (FLCP)TR:
         TOs 5A13-5-20-series, 33D7-50-
         358-series
9.7.4.5.26.1 Theory of operation                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.26.2 Operational check                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
9.7.4.5.26.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                       -         -         -              -
9.7.5 PECULIAR SUPPORT
      EQUIPMENT
9.7.5.1 Theory of operation

                                                                 135
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.7.5.1.1 Viper MLV TR: TO 31S5-4-6085-                                                                                        -         -         -              -
         11
9.7.5.1.2 EPROM Programmer Verifier                                                                                            -         -         -              -
         ITA TR: TO 33D7-42-55 series
9.7.5.1.3 PROM Programmer TR: TO                                                                                               -         -         -              -
         31S5-4-1000-11
9.7.5.1.4 LRU Cooler Assembly TR: TO                                                                                           -         -         -              -
         33DA102-18-1
9.7.5.2 Use:
9.7.5.2.1 Virginia Patch Panel Alignment                                                                                       -         -         -              -
         Kit TR: Applicable test station -2
         TOs
9.7.5.2.2 Pressure Test Set TR: Applicable                                                                                     -         -         -              -
         LRU 8-1 TO
9.7.5.2.3 CAPRE TR: 33D7-3-27-series
9.7.5.2.3.1 EW programming                                *                                                                    -         -         -              -
9.7.5.2.3.2 AIS software updates                  *                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.7.5.2.4 EPROM Programmer Verifier                                                                                            -         -         -              -
         ITA TR: TO 33D7-42-55 series
9.7.5.2.5 PROM Programmer TR: TO                                                                                               -         -         -              -
         31S5-4-1000-11
9.7.5.2.6 LRU Cooling Assembly TR: TO
         33DA102-18-1
9.7.5.2.6.1 Operate                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.7.5.2.6.2 Perform Periodic Inspections
9.7.5.2.6.2.1 60 day or 400 hour                                                                                               -         -         -              -
9.7.5.2.6.2.2 365 day or 2400 hour                                                                                             -         -         -              -
9.7.5.2.6.2.3 Calibrate                                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.7.5.2.6.2.4 Service                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.7.5.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions
9.7.5.3.1 Viper MLV TR: TO31S5-4-6085-                                                                                         -         -         -              -
         11
9.7.5.3.2 EPROM Programmer Verifier                                                                                            -         -         -              -
         ITA TR: TO 33D7-42-39-11
9.7.5.3.3 PROM Programmer TR: TO                                                                                               -         -         -              -
         31S5-4-1000-11
9.7.5.3.4 Pressure Test Set TR: TO 33D7-8-                                                                                     -         -         -              -
         129-1
9.8 F-16 SPECIFIC MANUAL SYSTEMS
9.8.1 Intercommunications Systems
9.8.1.1 AUDIO 1 PANEL TR: TO 12R2-4-
        233-4
9.8.1.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.8.1.1.2 Bench Check                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.8.1.1.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.8.1.2 AUDIO 2 PANEL TR: TO 12R2-4-
        240-2
9.8.1.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.8.1.2.2 Bench Check                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.8.1.2.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
                                                                 136
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                           F-16 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                                     4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                             Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B        A           B              C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                                3         5                 7
                                                                                                                              Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl     Tng         Tng          Trainee    Trainer    Certifi       (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                  Start     Complete       Initials   Initials     er        Course    CDC       Course       CDC
                                                                                                                 Initials

9.8.1.3 AUX COMM PANEL TR: TO
        12R2-4-227-3
9.8.1.3.1 Bench Check                                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.8.1.3.2 Alignment                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
9.8.1.3.3 Isolate/repair malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.8.2 Electronic Warfare Systems
9.8.2.1 Threat Warning Auxiliary Panel
        TR: TO 12P3-2ALR22
9.8.2.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.8.2.1.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.8.2.1.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.8.2.2 Threat Warning Prime Panel TR:
        TO 12P3-2ALR22
9.8.2.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                  -         -         -              -
9.8.2.2.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.8.2.2.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                          -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3 Misc. Systems
9.8.2.3.1 Integrated Control Panel (ICP)
         TR: TOs 5N29-14-2, 5N29-20-2
9.8.2.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.1.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.1.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.2 Aft Station Control Panel (IKP)
         TR: TO 11F32-2-40-2
9.8.2.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.2.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.2.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.3 Communications Control Panel
         TR: TO 12R-4-179-2
9.8.2.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.3.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.3.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.4 Pilot‟s Control Grip Assembly
         TR: TOs 16C1-27-20-2, 16C1-27-
         30-2
9.8.2.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.4.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.4.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.5 Throttle Grip Assembly TR: TOs
         2JA8-24-2, 2JA8-24-12
9.8.2.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.5.2 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.5.3 Isolate/repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.6 Avionics Power Panel TR: TO
         8C21-30-2
9.8.2.3.6.1 Perform maintenance testing                                                                                        -         -         -              -
9.8.2.3.6.2 Isolate/Repair Malfunctions                                                                                        -         -         -              -

      Note: BLK #4: Columns (1) & (2) can be relabeled to meet CF Requirements; i.e., 2 phase 3 skill level course, 5 lvl QTPs.


                                                                 137
                                                                                                                            Attachment 9
                                    ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                   2. Core Tasks    3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                           Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A       B       A         B           C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                              3         5                 7
                                                                                                                            Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level             Level
                                                   5 Lvl    7 Lvl   Tng        Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                    Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course    CDC       Course       CDC

              ATTACHMENT 10
              NOTE 1: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident wartime course. The 7-level resident course is not taught in wartime.
      NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
      NOTE 3: Core Tasks are identified by an asterisk (*) in the appropriate column. Core tasks identified with an *R are optional for the ANG and ARC.
      NOTE 4: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager, DSN: 736-7899.


10. ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
10.1 ELECTRONICS SUPPORT SUBJECTS
10.1.1 Safety                                                                                                               B          -         -              -
10.1.2 First Aid                                                                                                            A          -         -              -
10.1.3 Electrostatic Discharge (ESD) Control                                                                                B          -         -              -
10.1.4 Electromagnetic Effects (EMP/EMI)                                                                                    B          -         -              -
10.1.5 Metric Notation                                                                                                      -          -         -              -
10.1.5.1 Calculate Powers of Ten                                                                                            B          -         -              -
10.1.5.2 Electrical Prefixes                                                                                                B          -         -              -
10.2 USE TEST EQUIPMENT
10.2.1 Analog Multimeter                                                                                                    2b         -         -              -
10.2.2 Digital Multimeter                                                                                                   2b         -         -              -
10.2.3 Oscilloscope                                                                                                         2b         -         -              -
10.2.4 Signal/Function Generator                                                                                            2b         -         -              -
10.3 BASIC CIRCUITS
10.3.1 Direct Current (DC)                                                                                                  -          -         -              -
10.3.1.1 Theory                                                                                                             B          -         -              -
10.3.1.2 Calculations                                                                                                       B          -         -              -
10.3.2 Alternating Current (AC)                                                                                             -          -         -              -
10.3.2.1 Theory                                                                                                             B          -         -              -
10.3.2.2 Calculations                                                                                                       B          -         -              -
10.4 BASIC CIRCUIT COMPONENTS
10.4.1 Resistors                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
10.4.1.1 Theory                                                                                                             B          -         -              -
10.4.1.2 Color Code                                                                                                         B          -         -              -
10.4.1.3 Troubleshoot (Calculate and Measure)                                                                               2b         -         -              -
10.4.2 Inductors                                                                                                             -         -         -              -
10.4.2.1 Theory                                                                                                             B          -         -              -
10.4.2.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       2b         -         -              -
10.4.3 Capacitors                                                                                                            -         -         -              -
10.4.3.1 Theory                                                                                                             B          -         -              -
10.4.3.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       2b         -         -              -
10.4.4 Resistive-Capacitive-Inductive (RCL) Circuits Theory                                                                  -         -         -              -
10.4.4.1 Basic                                                                                                              A          -         -              -
10.4.4.2 Resonant                                                                                                           A          -         -              -
10.4.4.3 Frequency Sensitive Filter                                                                                         A          -         -              -
10.5 ELECTROMAGNETIC DEVICES

                                                                              138
                                                                                                                                    Attachment 10
                                  ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B       A         B           C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                         3         5                 7
                                                                                                                       Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                       Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl   Tng        Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                               Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course    CDC       Course       CDC

10.5.1 Transformers                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
10.5.1.1 Theory                                                                                                        B          -         -              -
10.5.1.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  2b         -         -              -
10.5.2 Relays and Solenoids                                                                                             -         -         -              -
10.5.2.1 Theory                                                                                                        B          -         -              -
10.5.2.2 Troubleshoot Relay                                                                                            2b         -         -              -
10.5.3 Motor Theory                                                                                                     -         -         -              -
10.5.3.1 DC                                                                                                            A          -         -              -
10.5.3.2 AC                                                                                                            A          -         -              -
10.5.4 Generator Theory                                                                                                 -         -         -              -
10.5.4.1 DC                                                                                                            A          -         -              -
10.5.4.2 AC                                                                                                            A          -         -              -
10.5.5 Synchro/Servo                                                                                                    -         -         -              -
10.5.5.1 Theory                                                                                                        B          -         -              -
10.5.6 Transducer                                                                                                       -         -         -              -
10.5.6.1 Theory                                                                                                        B          -         -              -
10.6 SOLID STATE DEVICES
10.6.1 Diodes                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
10.6.1.1 Theory                                                                                                        B          -         -              -
10.6.1.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  2b         -         -              -
10.6.2 Transistors                                                                                                      -         -         -              -
10.6.2.1 Theory                                                                                                        B          -         -              -
10.6.2.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                  2b         -         -              -
10.6.3 Special Purpose Device Theory                                                                                    -         -         -              -
10.6.3.1 Zener Diode                                                                                                   B          -         -              -
10.6.3.2 Light Emitting Diode (LED)                                                                                    A          -         -              -
10.6.3.3 Liquid Crystal Display (LCD)                                                                                  A          -         -              -
10.6.3.4 Integrated Circuits (IC)                                                                                      A          -         -              -
10.6.3.5 Operational Amplifiers                                                                                        A          -         -              -
10.7 TRANSISTOR AMPLIFIER CIRCUITS
10.7.1 Theory                                                                                                          A          -         -              -
10.7.2 Stabilization                                                                                                   -          -         -              -
10.7.3 Coupling                                                                                                        A          -         -              -
10.8 POWER SUPPLY CIRCUITS
10.8.1 Theory                                                                                                           -         -         -              -
10.8.1.1 Rectifiers                                                                                                    B          -         -              -
10.8.1.2 Filters                                                                                                       B          -         -              -
10.8.1.3 Voltage Regulators                                                                                            B          -         -              -
10.8.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                    2b         -         -              -
10.9 WAVE GENERATING CIRCUITS
10.9.1 Theory                                                                                                          -          -         -              -
10.9.1.1 Oscillators                                                                                                   A          -         -              -

                                                                         139
                                                                                                                               Attachment 10
                                  ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B       A         B           C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                         3         5                 7
                                                                                                                       Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                       Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl   Tng        Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                               Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course    CDC       Course       CDC

10.9.1.2 Multivibrators                                                                                                A          -           -            -
10.9.1.3 Waveshaping Circuits                                                                                          A          -           -            -
10.10 DIGITAL NUMBERING SYSTEMS
10.10.1 Conversions                                                                                                    -          -           -            -
10.10.1.1 Binary                                                                                                       B          -           -            -
10.10.1.2 Octal                                                                                                        B          -           -            -
10.10.1.3 Hexadecimal                                                                                                  B          -           -            -
10.10.1.4 Binary Coded Decimal                                                                                         B          -           -            -
10.10.2 Hexadecimal Math Operations                                                                                    -          -           -            -
10.11 DIGITAL LOGIC CIRCUITS
10.11.1 Theory                                                                                                         -          -           -            -
10.11.1.1 Gates16                                                                                                      A          -           -            -
10.11.1.2 Flip Flops                                                                                                   A          -           -            -
10.11.1.3 Digital to Analog (DA) and Analog                                                                            A          -           -            -
      to Digital (AD) Converters Theory
10.12 BASIC COMPUTER FUNDAMENTALS
10.12.1 Network Theory                                                                                                  -         -           -            -
10.11.12.1.1 Components                                                                                                 -         -           -            -
10.12.1.2 Types                                                                                                         -         -           -            -
10.12.1.3 Topologies                                                                                                    -         -           -            -
10.12.1.4 Communications Mediums                                                                                        -         -           -            -
10.12.1.5 LAN Architecture                                                                                              -         -           -            -
10.13 BASIC COMMUNICATIONS
10.13.1 Theory                                                                                                         -          -           -            -
10.13.1.1 Antenna                                                                                                      B          -           -            -
10.13.1.2 Transmission Lines                                                                                           B          -           -            -
10.13.1.3 Data Bus                                                                                                     B          -       -                -
10.13.1.4 Waveguide                                                                                                    B          -           -            -
10.13.1.5 Fiber Optics                                                                                                 B          -           -            -
10.13.1.6 Cryptology                                                                                                   -          -           -            -
10.13.1.7 Waveforms (DAMA, phase shift, frequency hopping, SINCGARS)                                                   -          -           -            -
10.13.2 Transmitters                                                                                                   -          -           -            -
10.13.2.1 Frequency Modulation (FM)                                                                                    B          -           -            -
10.13.2.2 Amplitude Modulation (AM)                                                                                    B          -           -            -
10.13.3 Receivers                                                                                                      -          -           -            -
10.13.3.1 Frequency Modulation (FM)                                                                                    B          -           -            -
10.13.3.2 Amplitude Modulation (AM)                                                                                    B          -           -            -
10.13.3.2.1 AM Receiver Signals                                                                                        -          -           -            -
10.13.3.2.1.1 Measure Radio Frequency (RF)                                                                             -          -           -            -
10.13.3.2.1.2 Measure Intermediate Frequency (IF)                                                                      -          -           -            -
10.13.3.2.1.3 Measure Audio Frequency (AF)                                                                             -          -           -            -
10.13.3.2.1.4 Measure Local Oscillator (LO) Output                                                                     -          -           -            -
                                                                         140
                                                                                                                               Attachment 10
                                  ELECTRONIC PRINCIPLES TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                      Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B       A         B           C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                         3         5                 7
                                                                                                                       Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                       Level     Level             Level
                                               5 Lvl   7 Lvl   Tng        Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                               Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course    CDC       Course       CDC

10.14 SOLDER AND DESOLDER
10.14.1 Terminal Connection                                                                                            2b         -         -              -
10.14.2 Multipin Connector                                                                                             2b         -         -              -
10.14.3 Coaxial Connector                                                                                              2b         -         -              -
10.15 ASSEMBLE SOLDERLESS CONNECTORS
10.15.1 Crimped Connection                                                                                             2b         -         -              -
10.15.2 Coaxial Connector                                                                                              2b         -         -              -
10.15.3 Multipin Connector                                                                                             2b         -         -              -
10.16 GENERAL SHOP PRACTICES
10.16.1 Securing Cables                                                                                                2b         -         -              -
10.16.2 Safety Wire                                                                                                    2b         -         -              -
10.16.3 Multipin Connector                                                                                             2b         -         -              -
10.16.4 Splicing Connectors                                                                                            2b         -         -              -
10.16.5 Troubleshooting Methods                                                                                        2b         -         -              -




                                                                         141
                                                                                                                               Attachment 10
                                                      REQUIREMENTS FOR 2AX7X CDC
                                                     2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                            Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                            Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A        B       A        B           C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                               3         5                 7
                                                                                                                             Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                             Level     Level             Level
                                                     5 Lvl   7 Lvl    Tng       Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                      Start   Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course    CDC       Course       CDC


        ATTACHMENT 11
      NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require no certification.
      NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
      NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
      NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
      NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDCs

11 ATTACHMENT 5/13, REQUIREMENTS FOR 2AX7X CDC
11.1 REQUIREMENTS FOR 2AX7X CDC
11.1.1 MANAGEMENT WITHIN THE MAINTENANCE
          COMPLEX
                   TR: AFIs 21-101, 21-118
11.1.1.1 Functions of the Maintenance Complex                                                                                 -         -         -              B
                                                                                                                              -         -         -              B
11.1.1.2 Maintenance Group Commander Responsibilities TR: AFI 38-101,
         AFPD 38-1

11.1.1.3 Maintenance Debriefing and Landing Status Codes                                                                      -         -         -              A
11.1.1.4 Maintenance Analysis                                                                                                 -         -         -              B

11.1.1.5 Compliance and Standardizations Requirements Listings                                                                -         -         -              A
11.1.1.6 Maintenance Performance Indicators (MPI) Relationships                                                               -         -         -              B
11.1.1.7 Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program Management                                                                       -         -         -              A
11.1.1.8 Joint Oil Analysis Program TR: TO 33-1-37-1                                                                          -         -         -              A

11.1.1.9 Mobility                                                                                                             -         -         -              A
                                                                                                                              -         -         -              A
11.1.1.10 Hazard Declarations for Mobility Packages TR: AFI 91-301, AFMAN 24-204
11.1.1.11 Hazardous Material Handling TR: AFIs 24-202, 91-301, AFMANs 23-                                                     -         -         -              B
         110, 24-404
11.1.1.12 Production Supervisor, Flight Chief, Section Chief, and Expediter Duties                                            -         -         -              B
          and Responsibilities TR: AFI 21-101

11.1.1.13 Special Certification Rosters TR: AFI 21-101                                                                        -         -         -              B

11.1.1.14 Maintenance Incident Investigation and Prevention TR: AFI 91-204                                                    -         -         -              B

                                                                                                                              -         -         -              A
11.1.1.15 Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment TR: AFI 21-101

11.1.1.16 Operational Risk Management (ORM) TR: AFPD 90-9, AFI 90-901,                                                        -         -         -              A
        AFPAM 90-902
11.1.1.17 Restricted Maintenance Areas                                                                                        -         -         -              A
                                                                                                                              -         -         -              A
11.1.1.18 Proper Handling of Classified Assets TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-20-1

11.1.1.19 Maintenance Inspection Concepts TR: TO 00-20-1                                                                      -         -         -              B


                                                                                142
                                                                                                                                     Attachment 11
                                                 REQUIREMENTS FOR 2AX7X CDC
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                       Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B       A         B           C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                          3         5                 7
                                                                                                                        Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                        Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl   Tng        Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course    CDC       Course       CDC


11.1.1.20 Tool and Equipment Management TR: AFI 21-101                                                                   -         -         -              A

11.1.2 ENLISTED SPECIALTY TRAINING TR: AFIs 36-2201 vol 1-6, 36-2232
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.2.1 Training Management and Records
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.2.2 IMDS Automated Training Business Area

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.2.3 Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.2.4 Specialty Training Standard (STS)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.2.5 Occupational Survey Report (OSR)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.2.6 Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.2.7 Training Forecast / Request

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.2.8 Training Waiver Process

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.2.9 Field Evaluation Questionnaire (FEQ) and Graduate Assessment Survey (GAS)

11.1.3 ACCOUNTABILITY FOR RECORDS, REPORTS, AND FORMS
       TR: AFI 21-109, TOs 00-35D-54 and 00-20 Series
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.3.1 Historical Records
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.3.2 Minimum Essential System Listing (MESL) TR:AFI 21-103

11.1.4 AUTOMATED MAINTENANCE SYSTEMS

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.4.1 Core Automated Maintenance System for Airlift (G081)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.4.2 Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS) TR: AFM 66-279 Vol I-XXVII, TO 00-20-2

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.4.3 Maintenance Data Documentation (MDD) TR: TO 00-20-2

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.4.4 Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.4.5 Reliability and Maintainability Information System (REMIS)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.4.6 Enhanced Maintenance Operations Center (EMOC) Software



                                                                          143
                                                                                                                                Attachment 11
                                                 REQUIREMENTS FOR 2AX7X CDC
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                       Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B       A         B           C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                          3         5                 7
                                                                                                                        Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                        Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl   Tng        Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course    CDC       Course       CDC

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.4.7 Air Force Technical Order (AFTO) Forms 781, 244, and 245 TR:
        TO 00-20-1
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.4.8 Configuration Management TR: AFI 21-101

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.4.9 Aircraft / Equipment Modifications TR: AFI 63-1101

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.4.10 Nuclear Surety TR: AFI 91-101


11.1.5 SUPPLY MANAGEMENT TR: DOD 7200-10, AFM 67-1, AFMANs 23-220, 23-110

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.5.1 Maintenance Supply Concept TR: AFMAN 23-110

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.5.2 Supply Documents Management

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.5.3 Precious Metals Program TR: AFMAN 23-110

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.5.4 Quick Reference List (QRL)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.5.5 Standard Base Supply System (SBSS) TR: AFMAN 23-110

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.5.6 Integrated Logistic System-Supply (ILS-S) and Global Combat Support System (GCSS)TR:
               AFMAN 23-110
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.5.7 Maintenance Repair/Supply Delivery Priorities TR: AFI 21-101

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.5.8 Repair Cycle Assets TR: AFI 21-101

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.5.9 Report of Survey and Statement of Charges TR: AFI 23-220

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.5.10 Equipment Account Management TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFI 21-101

11.1.5.11 Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing (CA/CRL) TR:                                                   -         -         -              A
          AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.5.12 Special Purpose Recoverable Authorized Maintenance (SPRAM)
          TR: AFMAN 23-110, AFIs 21-101, 21-103
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.5.13 Air Force Equipment Management System (AFEMS)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.5.14 Bench, Shop, Operating Stocks, Work Order Residue, Special Levels, and Shelf-Life items
              TR: AFI 21-101



                                                                          144
                                                                                                                                Attachment 11
                                                 REQUIREMENTS FOR 2AX7X CDC
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                       Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B       A         B           C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                          3         5                 7
                                                                                                                        Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                        Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl   Tng        Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course    CDC       Course       CDC

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.5.15 Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT) TR: AFI 90-821

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.5.16 Qualified Products Listing

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.5.17 Local Manufacture TR: AFI 21-101

11.1.6 LOGISTICS AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TR: AFPD 21-1
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.6.1 Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card Program and Air Force Form 9 TR: AFI 64-117
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.6.2 Air Force Repair Enhancement Program (AFREP) TR: AFI 64-117

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.6.3 Air Force Material Command (AFMC) Responsibilities

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.6.4 Special Experience Identifier (SEI) TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 36-2108

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.6.5 Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Management Personnel Roster (UMPR)

11.1.6.6 Manning Standard, and Logistics Composite Model (LCOM)                                                          -         -         -              A
         TR: AFI 3 8-201, AFMAN 38-208
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.6.7 Status of Resources and Training (SORTS)

11.1.7 TECHNICAL ORDER MANAGEMENT TR: AFI 21-101, 21-303, TO 00-5-1

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.7.1 Technical Order Distribution Office (TODO), Technical Order Distribution Account (TODA),
              Technical Order Review Board (TORB) TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-5-1

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.7.2 Air Force Technical Order Forms 22, 27, and 158

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.7.3 Automated Technical Order Management System (ATOMS) TR: TO 00-5-1

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.7.4 Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO) TR: TO 00-5-15

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.7.5 Joint Computer-Aided Acquisition and Logistic Support (JCALS)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.7.6 Electronic Technical Orders

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.7.7 USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigation System TR: TO 00-35D-54

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.7.8 Deficiency Report Entry and Mail Submitter (DREAMS)

                                                                          145
                                                                                                                                Attachment 11
                                                 REQUIREMENTS FOR 2AX7X CDC
                                                2. Core Tasks   3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                       Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                       Provided (See Note)
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References    A       B       A         B           C         D           E          A         B                 C
                                                                                                                          3         5                 7
                                                                                                                        Skill     Skill             Skill
                                                                                                                        Level     Level             Level
                                                5 Lvl   7 Lvl   Tng        Tng       Trainee    Trainer    Certifier     (1)       (1)       (1)         (1)
                                                                Start    Complete    Initials   Initials    Initials   Course    CDC       Course       CDC

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.7.9 Supply Discrepancy Report

11.1.7.10 Product Improvement Working Groups (PIWG), Technical Improvement Product Working                               -         -         -              A
              Groups (TIPWG), System Training Plan (STP), and Program Management Review
              (PMR)
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.7.11 Corrosion Prevention Advisory Board (CPAB) TR: AFI 21-105

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.7.12 Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP) TR: AFI 21-101, 63-1001

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.7.13 Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL)

11.1.8 COMPUTER APPLICATION

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.8.1 Air Force Electronic Publishing Library (AFEPL)

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              B
11.1.8.2 Air Force Portal

11.1.9 MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY CENTRALIZED INTERMEDIATE REPAIR
            FACILITIES (CIRFs) TR: AFI 21-101
11.1.9.1 Unit Type Codes (UTCs) to support Forward Operating Locations (FOLs) and Centralized                            -         -         -              A
               Intermediate Repair Facility (CIRFs)
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.9.2 Readiness Spares Packages (RSPs) to support O-level maintenance at FOLs
                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.9.3 Readiness Spares Packages (RSPs) to support I-level maintenance at CIRFs

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.9.4 Air Force Portal; for status of aircraft, engines, pods, test stations, and LRUs/SRUs

11.1.10 SAFETY TR: AFI 21-101

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.10.1 Hazard Abatement Program TR: AFI 91-301

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.10.2 Maintenance Safety Guidance TR: AFOSH STD 91-501

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.10.3 Evaluation Program TR: AFI 21-101

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.10.4 Quality Assurance Program (QAP) TR: AFI 21-101

                                                                                                                         -         -         -              A
11.1.10.5 Special Programs TR: AFI 21-101




                                                                          146
                                                                                                                                Attachment 11
