DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   Change 2
Headquarters US Air Force                                                CFETP 1C2X1
Washington DC 20330-1030                                                12 August, 2009


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available on the e-Publishing website at:
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

                              AFSC 1C2X1
                           COMBAT CONTROL
               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

This change is effective immediately and updates 1C2X1 CFETP dated Nov 06 and
change 1 dated Feb 08. Compliance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program,
and other training publications and documents is required.

   1. Write in changes:
         a. Page 12 paragraph 6 changed to read: “Training Decisions. The CFETP
             uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the
             entire spectrum of training requirements for the Combat Control specialty.
             The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet the
             training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to
             reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to
             training. The following training decisions were based on a career field
             Utilization & Training Workshop (U&TW) held at Lackland AFB, TX
             from 14-16 March 2006. Key training decisions from the U&TW
             involved making the Orientation Course a Standards Course (Combat
             Control Screening Course), adding entry/exit standards for Physical
             Training (PT) throughout the pipeline, and adding electric demolition
             training back into Combat Control School (CCS). The AFCFM is the
             authority for waiving any mandatory training requirement(s). Process
             waiver requests to the AFCFM as described in AFI 36-2201.
         b. Page 12 paragraph 6.1. to read: “Apprentice Training. The apprentice-
             training pipeline was adjusted to address training deficiencies. Specifically
             para 6.1.1, table 6.1 below was expanded to include progressive rucksack
             and swim training standards to better prepare trainees for follow-on
             courses in the pipeline with the intent of reducing attrition in the latter
             portions of the training pipeline. In the most expeditious manner, the
             Combat Control Apprentice pipeline provides: Preparation for Combat
             Control physical and mission requirements (Combat Control Screening
             Course); Air Traffic Control Training (Combat Control Operator Courses);
             Basic jump training (Army Airborne), and Combat Survival Training.
             These qualification courses are mandatory prerequisites for entry into the
             AFSC awarding course. The Combat Control Apprentice course provides
                                                                                             1
   individuals with knowledge and hands-on training that prepares them for
   the Advanced Skills Training Course (ASTC) with apprentice 3-skill level
   skill sets.
c. Page 12 paragraph 6.1.1. to read: “Apprentice Physical Training.
   Superior physical conditioning is a cornerstone of combat effectiveness.
   Combat Control pipeline emphasizes physical training to assure that
   apprentice course graduates have the temperament and potential to meet
   the intense physical challenges inherent in the 5- level upgrade process
   and the CCT specialty. Efficient training of Combat Controllers from the
   Combat Control Selection Course through Apprentice (3-skill level) and
   Journeyman (5-skill level) is a complex, multi-command effort. The
   demanding physical nature the CCT career field coupled with the
   requirement to conduct high risk training/operations requires persistent
   attention to detail in every aspect of training. This attention to detail is
   best learned and reinforced through Discipline and Motivational Training
   (DMT) applied throughout the CCT Training Pipeline. DMT should be
   IAW AETCI 36-2203, Technical and Basic Military Training
   Development, and implemented into each course via Annex to the
   individual Course Training Plans. The PT standards described in table 6.1
   below support STS tasks 1.3.4. Perform physical training, and 1.3.5
   Perform surface swimming, as these tasks apply to the apprentice pipeline.
   Events may be administered in any order necessitated by logistics as long
   as calisthenics exercises are administered in the specified order. PAST test
   procedures are specified per AETC 1C2 Training Pipeline Manager
   (TPM) and AFI 36-2626.
d. Page 13 note (1) to read:
               (1) Combat Control Screening Course Standards
                        a. Evaluation: Entry PAST applies to all candidates
                            entering CCT Training; includes 2 x 20m UW;
                            successful completion mandated to start course
                        b. Assessment: Conducted to gauge student
                            progression in preparation for increasing standards
e. Page 13 note (6) to read:
               (6) Rucksack March Progression Standards
                        a. Assessment: Wearing ABUs, boots, and carrying a
                        45 lb load (30 lb rucksack / 15 lb LCE)
                        b. Assessment: Wearing ABUs, boots, and carrying a
                        50 lb load (35 lb rucksack / 15 lb LCE)
                        c. Evaluation: Wearing ABUs, boots, and carrying a
                        60 lb load (40 lb rucksack / 20 lb LCE)
                        d. Assessment: Wearing ABUs, boots, and carrying a
                        70 lb load (50 lb rucksack / 20 lb LCE)
                        e. Evaluation: Field navigation in full mission gear
                        (approximately 90 lb rucksack / 25 lb LCE)
                        f. Graduation assessment: Wearing ABUs, boots, and
                        carrying a 75 lb load (50 lb rucksack / 25 lb LCE)
                                                                                  2
       f. Page 14 (8), Delete
       g. Page 14 Table 6.2, Delete
       h. Page 14 notes (1), (2), (3), and (4), Delete
       i. Page 15 note (5), Delete
       j. Page 16 paragraph 6.7.2. to read: Combat Control technical training
          instructors are fully qualified Combat Controllers who maintain minimum
          operational proficiency IAW AFI 13-219, Volume 1, Combat Control and
          Special Tactics Officer Training.
2. Make the following correction to the STS:
      a. Page 34 item 1.3.5., to read: Perform Surface Swimming
3. After making the required changes, file this change in the back of the CFETP.




                               RICHARD E. WEBBER, Maj Gen, USAF
                               Asst DCS, Operations, Plans, & Requirements




                                                                                    3
