DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                     CFETP 1C5X1
Headquarters US Air Force                        Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1480                         March 2005



                              AFSC 1C5X1

       AEROSPACE CONTROL AND WARNING SYSTEMS
                     SPECIALTY




                         CAREER FIELD
                  EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
           AEROSPACE CONTROL AND WARNING SYSTEMS SPECIALTY
                              AFSC 1C5X1
                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS


PART I                                                        1
 Preface
 Abbreviations and Terms Explained

Section A – General Information                               5
 Purpose of CFETP
 Use of CFETP
 Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B – Career Field Progression and Information          6
 Specialty Descriptions
 Skill/Career Progression
       Apprentice Level (3)
       Journeyman Level (5)
       Craftsman Level (7)
       Superintendent Level (9)
       Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Level (00)
  Training Decisions
  Community College of the Air Force

Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements                12
 Purpose
 Training Requirements
      Apprentice Level (3)
      Journeyman Level (5)
      Craftsman Level (7)
      Superintendent Level (9)

Section D – Resource Constraints                             14

PART II

Section A – Specialty Training Standard                      15

Section B – Course Objective List                            28

Section C – Support Materials                                28

Section D – Training Course Index                            28

Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements                       28

________________________________________
OPR: HQ USAF/XOOY (CMSgt Rickey McCaslan)
Approved by: Colonel James W. Patterson
Prepared by: 334 TRS/TRR
Supercedes: CFETP 1C5X1, Dated June 2002
Number of Pages: 37



                                                i
     AEROSPACE CONTROL AND WARNING SYSTEMS SPECIALTY
                        AFSC 1C5X1
         CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

Part 1

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and training
document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support resources, and
minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel with a clear career
path to success in all aspects of career field training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts used by supervisors to plan, manage, and control training within the
career field.

2.1. Part 1 provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. It contains
administrative details and a specialty description, explains the purpose and use of the CFETP, identifies
career field requirements and progression, provides career field information, and documents training
decisions. Each skill level is also defined, known resource constraints are identified, and a list of
continuation training for the specialty is provided. Note: AFMAN 36-2108, Airman Classification, contains
the specialty description.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes
duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC)
conducted training, wartime course, core tasks, and correspondence course requirements; Section B
contains the course objective list and training standards supervisors will use to determine if airmen
satisfied training requirements; Section C identifies available support materials. An example is a
qualification training package (QTP) which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section D
identifies a training course index, which is used to determine resources available to support training.
Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training
requirements.

3. This CFETP is designed to ensure individuals in AFSC 1C5X1 receive comprehensive and effective
training at the appropriate phases of their career. At unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to
identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL). Training delivered to students at their base of assignment
without an Air Education and Training Command (AETC) instructor physically present. The training
media may take the form of interactive courseware (ICW), video-tele training (VTT), videotape, paper, or
some combination of these.

Advanced Training. Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one or more
positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in
the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). An individual charged with the responsibility for overseeing
all training and career field management aspects of an Air Force specialty or group of specialties.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS)/Command Job Qualification Standard (CJQS). A
comprehensive task list which describes a particular job type or duty position. Supervisors may use these




                                                      1
to document task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the
described duty position.

Allocation Curves. The relation of hours of training in different training settings to the degree of
proficiency that can be achieved on specified performance requirements.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A comprehensive, multipurpose document that
encapsulates the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical growth
plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training identifiable, eliminate
duplication, and ensure the training budget is defensible.

Career Training Guide (CTG). A document that uses Task Modules (TMs) in lieu of tasks to define
performance and training requirements for a career field.

Combat Mission Ready (CMR). An Aerospace Control and Warning System member who has
satisfactorily completed initial qualification training and mission qualification training and maintains
qualification and proficiency in the command or unit operational mission.

Continuation Training (CT). Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present or
future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identifies as minimum qualification requirements within an AFSC,
regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or in general across the
AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.

Course Objective List (COL). A comprehensive list, derived from initial/advanced skills course training
standards, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards, to achieve a 3-
or 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations
in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing, and Conducting Military Training Programs.

Enlisted Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (OJT) to
qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training. Special or regular on-site training conducted by a field training detachment
(FTD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course that results in award of the 3-skill level AFSC.

Instructional Systems Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for planning,
developing, validating, implementing, and reviewing instructional programs. It ensures personnel are
taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful job performance.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report that shows the results of an occupational survey
of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings that results in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.




                                                       2
Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an individual
in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel OJT program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional course designed for use at the unit to qualify, or
aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer
based, or in other audio-visual media.

Representative Sites. Typical organizational units having similar missions, weapons systems,
equipment, or set of jobs used as a basis to estimate average training capacities and costs within the
Training Impact Decision System (TIDES).

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as funds, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment
that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Skills Training. A formal course that results in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-job) to qualify
and upgrade airmen in the award of a skill level.

Specialty Training Package and Communications Security (COMSEC) Qualification Training
Package. A composite of lesson plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures
necessary to conduct training. These packages are prepared by AETC, approved by the National
Security Agency (NSA), and are administered by qualified COMSEC personnel.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes skills, tasks, and knowledge
that an airman in a particular specialty may be expected to perform or to know on the job. It further
serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training
requirements for an AFSC is taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or abstract concept, established and defined by authority,
custom, or common consent, to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities,
establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.

Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed within an AFS that are performed together and that
require common knowledge, skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification code and a
statement.

Total Force. The collective components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the United
States Air Force.

Training Capability. The capability to provide training on specified requirements, based on the
availability of resources.

Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as the Utilization and Training
Workshop (U&TW); however, TPTs address a wider range of issues than those normally addressed in the
U&TW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included in the
training decision process.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job, field
training, mobile training team, self-study, advanced distributed learning, etc).

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training that leads to award of a higher skill level in an AFS.




                                                      3
Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to, and the jobs performed by,
personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or AFS. There are two types of patterns: 1)
Current pattern, which is based on the training provided to incumbents and the jobs to which they have
been and are assigned; and 2) Alternate pattern, which considers proposed changes in manpower,
personnel, and training policies.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum consisting of the AFCFM, MAJCOM AFSC
functional managers (FMs), subject matter experts, and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements.

Wartime Task. Tasks the AFCFM identifies as minimum qualification requirements trained in the
resident wartime course(s).




                                                   4
SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the Air Force Career Field Manager
(AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors, and
trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective and efficient 1C5X1 career field training
program. The plan outlines the training that individuals must receive in order to develop and progress
throughout their career. For the purpose of this plan, training is divided into four areas: initial skills,
upgrade training (UGT), qualification training (QT), and continuation training (CT). Initial skills training is
the Air Force Specialty (AFS)-specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon
retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory
courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion required for award of
the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training
designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and
after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge training
required for the job. Continuation training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable
advanced training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and
knowledge beyond the minimum required. The CFETP also serves other purposes, to include the
following:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. It is also used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual’s
career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in this specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training
medium.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career field
training program.

2. Uses. The AFCFM will maintain this CFETP in accordance with AFMAN 36-2245. MFMs will review
the CFETP at least annually to ensure currency and accuracy and forward recommended changes to the
AFCFM. Training managers at all levels will use this plan to ensure a comprehensive and cohesive
training program is available and instituted for each individual in the 1C5X1 career ladder.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop/revise formal resident, non-resident, field, and exportable
training based on requirements established by the user and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They
will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies to obtain resources needed to meet
training requirements.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial and upgrade
skills requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses can establish
identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to support this AFSC must be identified for
inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of
courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is approval authority. MAJCOM representatives and
AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. The AETC
training manager for this specialty will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC and MFMs to
ensure currency and accuracy. Using the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.
Applicable inputs/changes to this CFETP will be routed to 334 TRS/TRR, 700 Hangar Road, Suite 123,
Keesler AFB MS 39534-2235.



                                                       5
SECTION B - CAREER PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. (Note: Refer to AFMAN 36-2108.) Manages and operates aerospace control
and warning systems, including functions involving surveillance, identification, weapons control, data link
management, communications/computer system management, electronic attack (EA), and electronic
protection (EP). Provides RADAR control and monitoring of air weapons during offensive and defensive
air operations. Makes decisions in the conduct of air operations and in system equipment management.
Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 221.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1. Operates aerospace control and warning systems equipment. Interprets and reacts to RADAR
scope presentations and to generated console displays. Compares and reports track positions based on
flight data or data base files. Performs surveillance, identification, weapons control, data link, and data
management functions. Conducts mission planning. Prepares and executes air tasking orders and
airspace control orders. Participates as a crewmember of an operational unit. Responsible for safety of
flight for air operations being controlled. Tears down, loads, unloads, and erects equipment and
components.

4.2.2. Gathers, displays, records, and distributes operational information. Coordinates with and
exchanges air movement and identification information among air defense, air control, range control, and
air traffic control agencies on matters pertaining to aircraft operations. Operates data link equipment and
other automated data exchange devices to gather and relay operational information. Reports emergency
signals and EA observations. Maintains logs, forms, and database files. Evaluates RADAR detection
and performance. Maintains liaison with air defense artillery and surface and naval fire units to ensure
safe passage of friendly air traffic.

4.2.3. Performs EP functions. Maintains maximum RADAR sensitivity using electronic protection (EP)
techniques to eliminate degradation caused by electronic warfare activities or other influences. Monitors
operation of RADAR inputs and countermeasures consoles, anti-jamming displays, and RADAR sensors
to enhance RADAR presentations.

4.2.4. Performs training, planning, standardization, evaluation, and other staff duty functions. Performs
staff assistance visits to subordinate units. Tests and evaluates capabilities of new equipment and
propriety of new procedures.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill level plays an extremely important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its
mission. Therefore, it is essential that everyone involved in training do his or her part to plan, develop,
manage, conduct, and evaluate an effective and efficient training program. The guidance provided in this
part of the CFETP will ensure individuals receive viable training at the appropriate points in their career.
The following narratives, and the AFSC 1C5X1 career field charts, identify the training career path. They
define the training required in an individual’s career.

5.1. Apprentice (3) Level. Initial skills training in this specialty consist of the tasks and knowledge
training provided in the 3-skill level resident courses (E3ABR1C531-007) located at Keesler AFB, MS.
The decision to train specific task and knowledge items in the initial skills courses is based on a review of
the occupational survey report (OSR) data, training requirements analysis data, and 1C531 subject
matter expert (SME) input. Task and knowledge requirements are identified in the specialty training
standard in Part II of this CFETP, Section A. Individuals will work with a trainer to enhance their
knowledge and skills and prepare for duty position qualification. Individuals must complete the initial skills
courses to be awarded AFSC 1C531.




                                                      6
5.2. Journeyman (5) Level. Training for the 5-skill level consists of task and knowledge training
provided through the specialty training standard (STS) and is based on an analysis of duties contained in
AFMAN 36-2108. Career knowledge is provided in the 1C5X1 5-skill level career development course
(CDC). Individuals are entered into 5-skill level upgrade training (UGT) upon arrival at their initial duty
station. All individuals upgrading to 5-skill level in this specialty must complete the following: 1C5X1
CDCs; certification on all core tasks indicated on the STS; unit-specific duty position tasks; and 15
months in upgrade training (9 months for re-trainees). Once upgraded to the 5-level, journeymen begin to
broaden their experience through continuation training and should seek qualification in multiple duty
positions. Five-levels may be assigned/qualified at job positions such as Weapons Director (WD),
Surveillance Technician (ST), Interface Control Technician (ICT), Data Systems Technician (DST),
Electronic Protection Technician (EPT), Defensive Duty Technician (DDT), Tracking Technician (TT),
Identification Technician (IDT), and ATO Production Technician. Individuals attend the Airman
Leadership School (ALS) after having 48 months in the Air Force or be selected for promotion to SSgt.
Appointment as unit trainers is authorized for individuals considered the “most qualified”. Individuals use
their CDCs to help prepare for promotion testing under the Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS).
They should consider continuing their education towards a Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
degree in Air and Space Operations Technology.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level. Training for the 7-skill level consists of task and knowledge training provided
through the specialty training standard and is based on analysis of the duties contained in AFMAN 36-
2108. Individuals selected for promotion to SSgt are entered into 7-level upgrade training on the first day
of the promotion cycle. All individuals upgrading to the 7-skill level in this specialty must complete the
following: certification on all core tasks indicated on the STS; unit-specific duty position tasks; and 12
months in upgrade training (retrainees require 6 months upgrade training). A craftsman can expect to fill
various supervisory and management positions such as Crew Chief, Operations Coordinator (OC), Battle
Staff Coordinator (BSC), Weapons Director (WD), Air Surveillance Technician (AST), Mission Crew
Commander Technician (MCCT), Senior Air Defense Officer (SADO/T) Technician, Senior Offensive Duty
Officer Technician (SODO/T) and as a primary task certifier. They may also be assigned to staff positions
such as NCOIC of various duty sections as well as positions in standardization/evaluation and training
offices. They may also be assigned to Group and MAJCOM positions as well as Air National Guard
advisor positions. 1C571s should take courses and otherwise increase their knowledge in management
of resources and personnel. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs
is strongly encouraged. When promoted to Technical Sergeant, individuals will attend the
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA). There is no 7-level course or CDC prerequisites for award
of the 1C5X1 7-skill level.

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level. To be awarded AFSC 1C591 an individual must be a SMSgt and
complete any other requirements specified in AFMAN 36-2108. A Superintendent can expect to fill
positions such as Operations Superintendent as well as staff positions at Numbered Air Forces and
MAJCOMs. Additional training in the areas of training development, budget, manpower, resources, and
personnel management should be pursued through continuing education. Higher education and
completion of courses outside the career AFSC core competencies are also recommended.

5.5. Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) (00) Level. To be awarded AFSC 1C500 an individual must be a
CMSgt and complete any requirements specified in AFMAN 36-2108. A CEM is expected to fill positions
such as Operations Superintendent, staff positions as Numbered Air Forces, MAJCOMs, AFPC, and HQ
USAF. Additional training in the areas of training development, budget, manpower, resources, and
personnel management must be pursued through continuing education. Higher education and
completion of courses outside the career AFSC core competencies are also recommended.

6. Training Decisions. This CFETP uses a building block approach to encompass the entire spectrum
of training requirements for the Aerospace Control and Warning Systems career field. It was developed
to include life-cycle training requirements for this specialty. The spectrum includes a strategy for when,
where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to
reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training.




                                                     7
6.1. Initial Skills Training. At the August 2004 Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW), the 1C5X1
STS was changed to eliminate system initialization task performance requirements from the initial skills
course, thus reducing the course by 13 days.

6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training. At the May 2001 U&TW, training requirements were expanded in
areas related to Weapons Operations Fundamentals and Mission Planning. The requirement was
deleted for certain aspects of security training in the 5-level CDCs (human intelligence, espionage,
subversion, sabotage, terrorism). This material is already covered in the Promotion Fitness Examination
Study Guide, AFPAM 36-2241, Volume 1 and was found to be redundant. CDCs are now being revised
and will incorporate these changes.

6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training. There are no 7-level course or CDC prerequisites for award of the
1C5X1 7-skill level.

6.4. Continuation Training. The purpose of continuation training is to provide additional training that
exceeds the minimum upgrade training requirements and allow individuals to become proficient at their
present and future duty positions. Continuation training also assists individuals in maintaining proficiency
at their duty position and affords them an opportunity to reach their full potential. MAJCOM FMs must
develop a continuation training program that ensures individuals in the 1C5X1 career field receive the
necessary training at the appropriate point in their career.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic
military training. Off-duty education is a personal choice but is highly encouraged. CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree in Air and Space Operations Technology.
Information provided below in paragraph 7.3. is extracted from the 2202 General Catalog. Contact the
local education officer for the most current course information. In addition to its associates degree
program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification training,
consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors who
possess an associates degree or higher may be nominated by their school commander/commandant for
certification as an occupational instructor.

7.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is
awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The College uses a competency based assessment
process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels: Apprentice, Journeyman,
Craftsman/Supervisor, or Master Craftsman/Manager. All are transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

7.3. Degree Requirements. Prior to completing the Air and Space Operations Technology degree
through CCAF, the five-level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:


           Subject Area                                                             Semester Hours
Technical Education                                                                       24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                                               6
Physical Education                                                                         4
General Education                                                                         15
Program Elective                                                                          15
Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies,
       or General Education
Total                                                                                       64

7.3.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical




                                                     8
Core/Technical Elective subjects or courses. Requests to substitute comparable courses or to exceed
specified semester hour values in any subject or course must be approved in advance.

7.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional military
education, civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing credit.

7.3.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of Basic
Military Training.

7.3.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for application
of courses to the general education requirement and agree with the definitions of applicable general
education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General Catalog.

7.3.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Courses applying to technical education, leadership,
management, and military studies, or general education requirements; natural science courses meeting
general education requirement application criteria; foreign language credit earned at Defense Language
Institute or through Defense Language Proficiency Test; maximum six semester hours of CCAF degree-
applicable technical course credit otherwise not applicable to program of enrollment. See the CCAF
General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.4. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to
become an Air Education and Training Command Instructor should actively pursue an associate’s
degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools.

8. Career Field Education and Training Flowcharts. Charts that depict this specialty’s career path are
presented on the next pages. The career path outlines when training is required for each skill level and
function within this specialty.

Figure 1. Enlisted Career Path

Figure 2. Career Field Pyramid




                                                      9
                                              Enlisted Career Path.

                                                                         GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training                                    Rank       Earliest   Air Force      1C5X1      High Year
Requirements                                                         Sew-on     Average       Average     of Tenure
                                                                                 Sew-on       Sew-on        (HYT)
Basic Military Training School                            AB
Apprentice Technical School (1C531)                     AB, Amn 6 months
(3-Skill Level)                                          A1C    16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (1C551, 1C551D)
(5-Skill Level)                                           SrA       28 months    3 years                  12 years
- Minimum 15 months on-the-job training.
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for
retrainees.
- Completion of 5-level CDCs.
- An A1C can attend the weapons director course
and is awarded the1C551D duty AFSC upon course
completion.
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service or be
a SSgt selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt sew-
on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Craftsman (1C571, 1C571D)                      SSgt       3 years    4.8 years    4.7 years    20 years
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt select
- 12 months OJT
- 6 months OJT for retrainees
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)                    TSgt       5 years    13.5 years   15.2 years   24 years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                           MSgt       8 years    16.7 years   16.5 years   26 years
- Must be a CMSgt selectee, SMSgt, SMSgt
selectee, or a MSgt selected to attend
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for CMSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent (1C591)                        SMSgt      11 years    20.5 years   19.4 years   28 years
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) (1C500)        CMSgt    14 years                   22.8 years   22.7 years   30 years
- Minimum rank of CMSgt
- Completed SNCO Academy (Active Duty
Only)
                                  Data current as of Aug 04
                                                        Figure 1.




                                                           10
                                      Career Field Pyramid.




                                                                       HQ USAF CFM
                                                                       MAJCOM FM
                             CMS                                       AFPC FM
                                                                       NAF Staff
                                                                       SQ Operations Supt
 MAJCOM Staff
 NAF Staff              SMS
 SQ Operations Supt
                                                                             SNCOA
 FLT Supt             MSG
 Section NCOIC
 ANG Advisor

                                           Section NCOIC
                 TSG                        Training NCO
                                           Stan/Eval NCO
                                       Weapons & Tactics NCO                          NCOA
                                    Combat Ops/Combat Plans NCO
                         Crew
                         Chief
                                                               Formal
                                       Instructor        Instructor Course
       SSG
                                 7-Level OJT

     SRA         Weapons Director
                     Course                                                                  ALS
                                  5-Level CDC and OJT
                            Weapons Director Course Selection

 A1C                                 Initial Operator Experience
                  Multiple Duty Positions/Multiple Weapons Systems Assignments
                 (Air Control Squadron, Aerospace Operations Center, Air Defense
AMN                      Sector, Other Related Command and Control Units)
                                  Basic 3-Level Apprentice Course
AB
                                      Basic Military Training



                                               Figure 2.




                                                    11
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level
in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of
each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II
of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualifications:

10.1. Apprentice Level Training:

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification.

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of the characteristics and limitations of aerospace
surveillance and reporting systems; aircraft detection and tracking; RADAR capabilities and limitations;
communications equipment capabilities and limitations; RADAR console and data link equipment
presentations; receiving, recording, and relaying system information; fixed and mobile command and
control system characteristics; aircraft control procedures; techniques, aircraft performance
characteristics, and armament; meteorology pertaining to air weapons control operations; printout
interpretations; combat identification techniques; air traffic regulations; electronic attack (EA) equipment
capabilities and limitations; EA techniques; and geographical reference systems.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or general education
development (GED) equivalency is mandatory.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of the 1C531 AFSC, completion of a basic aerospace control and warning
systems course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. Experience is mandatory in performing functions such as aerospace control and
warning systems activities; operation of data display and computer input equipment and RADAR indicator
equipment; interpretation of computer-generated displays/printouts and RADAR console presentations;
and environmental systems operational procedures and techniques.

10.1.1.5. Other. Eligibility for a Secret security clearance is mandatory for award and retention of this
AFSC. Normal color vision is mandatory as defined in AFI 48-123 for entry into this AFSC. Qualification
to operate government vehicles is according to AFI 24-301 and AFMAN 24-309 is highly desirable for
entry into this AFSC.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. Completion of the Aerospace Control and Warning Systems
Apprentice Course at Keesler AFB MS satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified in the
specialty qualification section (above) for award of the 3-skill level.

10.1.3. Implementation. Upgrade training starts when an individual is assigned to their first duty
position. Upon completion of upgrade training, qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is
assigned duties they are not qualified to perform.

10.2. Journeyman Level Training:

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. All qualifications for AFSC 1C531 apply to 1C551 requirements.

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge includes: characteristics and limitations of aerospace
surveillance and reporting systems; aircraft detection and tracking; RADAR capabilities and limitations;
communications equipment capabilities and limitations; RADAR console and data link equipment
presentations; receiving, recording, and relaying system information; fixed and mobile command and
control systems characteristics; aircraft control procedures; techniques, aircraft performance



                                                      12
characteristics, and armament; meteorology pertaining to air weapons control operations; printout
interpretations; combat identification techniques; air traffic regulations; EA equipment capabilities and
limitations; EA techniques; geographical reference systems; and enemy order of battle.

10.2.1.2. Education. Completion of high school or general education development (GED) equivalency is
mandatory for entry into this AFSC.

10.2.1.3. Training.

10.2.1.3.1. Completion of the 1C551 CDC satisfies the knowledge requirements specified in the specialty
qualification section for award of the 5-skill level.

10.2.1.3.2. For award of the 1C551D AFSC, completion of the undergraduate weapons director course is
mandatory.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Experience is mandatory in performing functions such as aerospace control and
warning systems activities; operation of data display and computer input equipment and RADAR indicator
equipment; interpretation of computer-generated displays/printouts and RADAR console presentations;
and environmental systems operational procedures and techniques.

10.2.1.5. Other.

10.2.1.5.1. Eligibility for a Secret security clearance is mandatory for award and retention of this AFSC.

10.2.1.5.2. For award of AFSC 1C551D it is mandatory to hold at least a five-level in AFSC 1C5X1.

10.2.1.5.3. For entry, award, and retention of AFSC 1C551D, physical qualification is mandatory for
weapons director duty according to AFI 48-123.

10.2.1.5.4. Specialty Shred out: Suffix D - Weapons Director.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. CDC 1C551 may be ordered through the unit training
manager. The STS identifies all the core tasks required for qualification in an individual’s duty position.

10.2.3. Implementation. Entry into upgrade training begins when an individual arrives at their initial
assignment.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training:

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. All qualifications for 1C531/1C551 apply to the 1C571 requirements.

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. . For AFSC 1C571 and 1C571D, mandatory knowledge includes: functional
relationship within and among aerospace control and warning systems; aerospace control and warning
systems operations; EA equipment, capabilities, and limitations; ground environment systems; electronic
facilities; and EA and electronic protection (EP) capabilities within each sensor.

10.3.1.2. Experience.

10.3.1.2.1. For AFSC 1C571, qualification is mandatory as an Aerospace Control and Warning Systems
Journeyman. Experience is also mandatory performing or supervising functions such as aerospace
surveillance and control systems or Electronic Attack activities.

10.3.1.2.2. For AFSC 1C571D, qualification is mandatory as an Aerospace Control and Warning
Systems Journeyman, Weapons Director. Experience is also mandatory performing or evaluating
RADAR control and monitoring of air weapons.




                                                     13
10.3.1.3. Other.

10.3.1.3.1. Eligibility for a Secret security clearance is mandatory for award and retention of this AFSC.

10.3.1.3.2. For AFSC 1C571D, physical qualification for Weapons Director duty according to AFI 48-123
is mandatory for award and retention of the specialty shred out.

10.3.1.3.3. Specialty Shred out: Suffix D - Weapons Director

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources.         The STS identifies all core tasks required for qualification
in an individual’s duty position.

10.3.3. Implementation. Upon selection for promotion to SSgt, entry into 7-level upgrade training is
initiated on the first day of the promotion cycle. . (Clarification for Guard members should be added –
Entry into 7-level upgrade training will commence upon effective date of promotion to E-5) AFI 36-2923
para 5.3

10.4. Superintendent Level Training:

10.4.1. Specialty Qualifications.

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Mandatory knowledge includes: thorough understanding of aerospace control and
warning systems operations, equipment, procedures, and techniques for optimization of system
effectiveness. Knowledge in personnel resource management is also mandatory.

10.4.1.2. Experience. For AFSC 1C591, qualification is mandatory as an Aerospace Control and
Warning Systems Craftsman. Experience is also mandatory in supervising or managing aerospace
systems operations.

10.4.1.3 Other. For award and retention in this AFSC, eligibility for a Secret security clearance is
mandatory.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. The STS identifies all core tasks required for qualification in
The AFSC.

10.4.3. Implementation. Skill level is awarded when an individual possesses the 7-skill level and is in
the grade of SMSgt. Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties they are not
qualified to perform.

SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired training
from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative
explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint
has on training are included. Also included in this section are actions required, office of primary
responsibility (OPR), and target completion dates. Resource constraints will be reviewed and updated at
least annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training: No constraints identified.

13. Journeyman Level Training: No constraints identified.

14. Craftsman Level Training: There is no formal 7-level training for this career field.

Part II




                                                     14
SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for classes beginning
20050307and graduating on 20050406 for 3-skill level training. Projected activation date for the 5-skill
level CDC is 14 October, 2005.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

2.1 Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill
level.

2.1.1 Wartime Tasks, identified by an asterisk (*) to the left of the task statements in column 1, are tasks
identified by the MAJCOM Functional Managers that must continue to be taught when the wartime course
chart is implemented by HQ AETC. This would occur if the resident 3-level course was directed to
expand student flow above the trained personnel requirement (TPR) to satisfy wartime training
requirements.

2.1.2 Core Tasks, identified by an asterisk(*) in column 2, identify the minimum essential tasks required
to perform the duty expected of each person in each skill level of the specialty.

2.2 Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completed date. (As a minimum,
use the following column designators: Training Completed, Certifier Initials).
2.3 Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency to
be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task and knowledge and the
career knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained
by the unit training manager for current CDC listings. Course descriptions and reporting instructions for
course E3ABR1C531 00AA are identified in the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) database which is located at the following URL:
http://hq2af.keesler.af.mil/etca.htm.

2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the
level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.

2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-
Job Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. When used as a JQS, the following
requirements apply:

2.5.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training. Identify duty position requirements
by circling the subparagraph number next to the task statement. As a minimum, complete the following
columns in Part 2 of the CFETP: Training Start Date, Training Complete Date, Trainee Initials, Trainer
Initials, and Certifier initials when required by AFCFM (for tasks requiring third-party certification). NOTE:
The AFCFM may supplement these minimum documentation procedures as needed or deemed
necessary for the career field.

2.5.1.1. Converting from Old Document to CFETP. Transcribing documentation to a new CFETP is
an administrative function, not a re-evaluation of training. Therefore, supervisor and trainer are
considered synonymous for the purpose of documentation. Transcribe within 120 days (240 days for
ARC) of published date of revised CFETP. Upon publication of a new CFETP, use the following
procedures to transcribe:

2.5.1.1.1. Use the new CFETP to identify past and current training requirements and to transcribe
qualifications from the previous CFETP.




                                                      15
2.5.1.1.2. For tasks previously certified and required in the current duty position, circle the subparagraph
number next to the task statement and enter the current date in the completion column. Trainee initials in
the trainee column and the current task certifier or supervisor/trainer initials in the trainer column.

2.5.1.1.3. For tasks previously certified but not required in the current duty position (do not circle),
transcribe only the previous certification date (no initials). If the task later becomes required in the duty
position, recertify using current dates and initials.

2.5.1.1.4. Annotate the AF Form 623a, (for example, "I certify the information contained in the CFETP
dated XX was transcribed to the CFETP dated XX, and the trainee was given the superseded CFETP."
Signed and dated by supervisor and trainee).

2.5.1.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available: the supervisor identifies STS
training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and ensures, as a minimum, that
trainees cover the mandatory items in AFI 36-2108. For two-time CDC course exam failures: supervisors
identify all STS items corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee completes a study of
STS references, undergoes evaluation by the task certifier, and receives certification on the STS.
NOTE: Career Knowledge must be documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.

2.5.1.3. Decertification and Recertification. When an airman is found to be unqualified on a task
previously certified for his or her position, the supervisor lines through the previous certification or deletes
previous certification when using an automated system. Appropriate remarks are entered on the AF
Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, as to the reason for decertification. The
individual is recertified (if required) either by erasing the old entries or writing in the new or by using
correction fluid (if the entries were made in ink) over the previously certified entry.

2.5.2. Training Standard. At unit level, tasks are trained and qualified to the Go/No Go level. Go means
the individual can perform the task without assistance and meet local demands for accuracy, timeliness,
and correct use of procedures. Graduates of the 3-level resident course are trained to the level
indicated by the codes in column 4 of the STS, as they relate to the proficiency code key at the
front of the STS, NOT to the “Go” or CMR level.
2.6. The STS is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airmen Promotion
System (WAPS). The USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron (OMS), with 1C5 AFS senior NCOs
who have practical experience in their career fields, develops the Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT). The
OMS development team writes SKT test questions that examine STS subject matter areas. Questions
are based on study references listed in the WAPS study catalog. WAPS is not applicable to the Air
National Guard.

3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of AETC
training. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisors’
convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call our CSIL at DSN 597-4566, or fax us at DSN 597-
3790, or e-mail us at, 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this STS and identify the specific area of
concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc).



BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE OFFICIAL



                                                                        RONALD E. KEYS, Lt General, USAF
                                                                        Deputy Chief of Staff,
                                                                        Air and Space Operations




                                                       16
                                                                                                                            STS 1C5X1

                                        This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                  Initials (Written)           SSAN



N/I                                                                 N/I

N/I                                                                 N/I

N/I                                                                 N/I

N/I                                                                 N/I

N/I                                                                 N/I

N/I                                                                 N/I


N/I                                                                 N/I

N/I                                                                 N/I




                                                          Proficiency Code Key
                                 Scale       Definition: The individual
                                 Value
                                    1        Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                                             (Extremely Limited)
          Task                      2        Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
      Performance                   3        Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
         Levels                     4        Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the
                                             task. (Highly Proficient)
                                    a        Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
        *Task                       b        Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
      Knowledge                     c        Can identify when and why the task must be done and why each step is needed.
                                             (Operating Principles)
         Levels                     d        Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                    A        Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
       **Subject                    B        Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
                                             (Principles)
      Knowledge                     C        Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
        Levels                      D        Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
                                                         Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a
specific task. (Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task,
or for a subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.




                                                                     17
                                         2.                    3. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                         Core                                                                    Note)
                                         Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       AB C           A             B          C          D           E               A              B             C
 References                                                                                                       3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                          3 5 7        Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (2) (1)  (2) (1)  (2)
                                         Lvl Lvl Lvl   Start        Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC Crse CDC Crse CDC


 1. Career Field Education and
   Training Plan (CFETP)
   TR: 1C5X1 CFETP, AFMAN 36-2245,
   AFI 36-2606, 36-2502, AFMAN 36-
   2101, 36-2108
 1.1 Progression in the 1C5X1 Career
    Field
 1.1.1 Skill Level Duties of 1C531,          *                                                                      A                      B
      1C551(D), 1C571(D), 1C591,
      1C500
 1.1.2 Special Experience Identifiers        *                                                                      _                      B
      (SEIs)
 1.1.3 Prefixes/Suffixes                     *                                                                      A                      A
 1.1.4 Enlisted Education and Training       *                                                                      A                      B
      Path
 1.2 Specialty Training Standard (STS)       *                                                                      A                      B
 2. Weapons/Air Defense Systems
*2.1 Theater Air Control System (TACS)       *                                                                      B                      B
   TR: AFDD 2-1, AFPD 13-1, AFI 13-
    1MCA Vol 3, AFI 13-1AOC VOL 3

*2.2 In-Place Air Defense Systems            *                                                                      B                      B
 (NORAD, IADS, KTACS)
   TR: AFI 13-1AD Vol 3, NI 10-18
 3. Resource Management
   TR: AFPAM 36-2618, AFI 36-2907,
   10-403, 10-201, 36-2503, 36-2201,
   36-2101, AFMAN 36-2108, 1C5X1
   CFETP
 3.1 Personnel Assignment Tools

3.1.1 Unit Manpower Document (UMD)                                                                                  _                      _

3.1.2 Unit Personnel Management                                                                                     _                      _
     Roster (UPMR)
3.1.3 Change UMD/UPMR Using                                                                                         _                      _
     Authorization Change Request
     (ACR)/Authorization Change
     Notice (ACN)
3.1.4 Special Duty Assignment Pay                                                                                   _                      _
     (SDAP) Considerations
  TR: AFI 36-3017
3.1.5 Develop Crew                                                                                                  _                      _
     Schedules/Schedule Work
     Assignments
  TR: AFI 13-1MCS Vol 3, AFI 13-1AD
     Vol 3, 13-1AOC Vol 1




                                                       18
                                           2.                    3. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See
                                           Core                                                                    Note)
                                           Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         AB C           A             B          C          D           E               A              B             C
 References                                                                                                         3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                            3 5 7        Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (2) (1)  (2) (1)  (2)
                                           Lvl Lvl Lvl   Start        Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC Crse CDC Crse CDC


3.1.6 Use Assignment Management                                                                                       _                      _
     System
  TR:
     http:www.afas.afpc.randolph.af.mil/
     AMSWEB/master.cfm
3.2 Personnel Orientation


3.2.1 Orient Newly Assigned Personnel                                                                                 _                      _
     to the Organization, Mission, and
     Training Requirements of the Unit
  TR: AFI 36-2201, 36-3401
3.2.2 Establish Performance Standards                                                                                 _                      _
  TR: 1C5X1 CFETP, AFI 13-1,
     Stan/Eval Vol 2
3.3 Operations Supervision Activities
  TR: AFI 13-1AD Vol 3, AFI 13-1MCS
   Vol 3, AFI13-1AOC Vol 3
3.3.1 Evaluate Work Performance                                                                                       _                      _
     Using Appropriate Rating Forms
  TR: AFI 36-2406, AFPAM 36-2627
3.3.2 Resolve Operational Problems                                                                                    _                      _
     Encountered by Subordinate
     Personnel
3.3.3 Initiate Action to Correct                                                                                      _                      _
     Substandard Performance
  TR: AFI 36-2907, 36-2503
3.4 Mobility/Contingency Operations &
   Planning
  TR: AFI 10-403, 10-401 Vol 1&2, AFH
   10-416, AFPAM 10-417, AFI 38-205,
   AFMAN 10-100
3.4.1 Unit Type Code (UTC)                                                                                            _                      _

3.4.1.1 Manpower Force (MANFOR)                                                                                       _                      _

3.4.1.2 Logistics Details (LOGDET)                                                                                    _                      _

3.4.1.3 Mission Capabilities (MISCAP)                                                                                 _                      _

3.4.2 Deployment Readiness Manning                                                                                    _                      _
     Document (DRMD)
3.4.3 Individual Obligations                                                                                          _                      _

3.4.4 Construct Recall Roster                                                                                         _                      _




                                                         19
                                           2.                    3. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See
                                           Core                                                                    Note)
                                           Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         AB C           A             B          C          D           E               A              B             C
 References                                                                                                         3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                            3 5 7        Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (2) (1)  (2) (1)  (2)
                                           Lvl Lvl Lvl   Start        Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC Crse CDC Crse CDC


3.4.5 Operations Plan (OPLAN)/Time                                                                                    _                      _
     Phased Force Deployment
     Document (TPFDD) Taskings
3.4.6 Aerospace Expeditionary Force                                                                                   _                      _
     (AEF) Taskings
  TR: AFI 10-400
4. Training
  TR: AFI 36-2201, 36-2101, 13-1AOC
  Volume 1, 13-1MCS Volume 1, 13-
  109 Volume 1, 13-1AD Volume 1,
  AFMAN 36-2108, 36-2236, 36-2247,
  1C5X1 CFETP
4.1 Plan and Schedule On the Job                                                                                      _                      _
   Training (OJT)
4.2 Coordinate with Unit Education and                                                                                _                      _
   Training Manager
4.3 Conduct Initial Evaluations                                                                                       _                      _

4.4 Evaluate Adequacy of Training                                                                                     _                      _

4.5 Administer the CDC Program                                                                                        _                      _

4.6 Use Current CFETP                                                                                                 _                      _

4.7 Conduct OJT                                                                                                       _                      _

4.8 Evaluate OJT                                                                                                      _                      _

4.9 Manage OJT Documentation                                                                                          _                      _

4.10 Identify Additional Formal Training                                                                              _                      _
   Requirements
5. Security
  TR: AFI 10-101, 31-401, 31-501, 31-
  209, 31-601, 33-202, 33-203, AFPD
  31-1 AFJI 31-102, DOD 5200.1
5.1 Information Security

*5.1.1 Computer Security (COMPUSEC)            *                                                                      A                      _
   TR: AFI 33-202
*5.1.2 Communications Security                 *                                                                                             _
      (COMSEC)                                                                                                        A
   TR: AFI 33-210
*5.1.3 Emission Security (EMSEC)               *                                                                                             _
   TR: AFI 33-203                                                                                                     A
*5.1.4 Operations Security (OPSEC)             *                                                                                             _
   TR: AFI 10-1101                                                                                                    A




                                                         20
                                              2.                    3. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                      Training/Information Provided (See
                                              Core                                                                    Note)
                                              Tasks
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical           AB C           A             B          C          D           E               A              B             C
  References                                                                                                           3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                               3 5 7        Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (2) (1)  (2) (1)  (2)
                                              Lvl Lvl Lvl   Start        Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC Crse CDC Crse CDC


*5.1.5 Information Security Handling              *                                                                      A                      _
      Procedures
   TR: AFI 31-401
*5.1.6 Markings                                   *                                                                      A                      _
   TR: DOD 5200.1-R
*5.1.7 Safeguarding                               *                                                                      A                      _
   TR: AFI 31-501
 5.2 Personnel Security                                                                                                  _                      _
   TR: AFI 31-501, AFJI 31-102, AFPD
    31-1
 5.3 Industrial Security                                                                                                 _                      _
   TR: AFI 31-209

 5.4 Physical Security
   TR: AFI 31-501, AFJI 31-102, AFI 31-
    210, AFPD 31-1
*5.4.1 Force Protection Conditions                *                                                                      A                      _
      (FPCON)

*5.4.2 Human Intelligence (HUMINT)                *                                                                      A                      _
   TR: AFI 71-101

 5.5 Information Operations                                                                                              A                      _
   TR: AFI 31-209
 6. Air Force Occupational Safety and
   Health (AFOSH) Program
   TR: AFI 91-301
*6.1 AFOSH Standards for 1C5X1                    *                                                                      A                      _
     AFSC
*6.2 Occupational Hazards for 1C5X1               *                                                                      A                      _
     AFSC
*6.3 Observe Safety Precautions in                *                                                                     1b                      _
     Work Area
*6.4 Use Safety Procedures Around                 *                                                                     1b                      _
     Electronic Equipment
 7. Communications
   TR: ACPS 121, 125; AFI 11-214, 33-
   209, 33-112, 33-113; AFH 31-218
   Volume 1; AFJPAM 10-228; ATTP 3-
   1-1; FM 101-5-1, JTAO Interface
   Interoperability handbook;
   http://www.dtic.mil/jcs/j6/cceb/acps/ind
   ex.html/
 7.1 Radio/Telephone (R/T) Procedures

*7.1.1 Use Phonetic Alphabet                      *                                                                     2b                      _




                                                            21
                                         2.                    3. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                         Core                                                                    Note)
                                         Tasks
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical      AB C           A             B          C          D           E               A              B             C
  References                                                                                                      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                          3 5 7        Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (2) (1)  (2) (1)  (2)
                                         Lvl Lvl Lvl   Start        Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC Crse CDC Crse CDC


*7.1.2 Use Prowords                          *                                                                     2b                      B

*7.1.3 Operational Brevity Code              *                                                                      A                      B

*7.1.4 Minimize Procedures                   *                                                                      A                      B

*7.1.5 Use Authentication Procedures         *                                                                     2b                      _

*7.2 Voice Systems

*7.2.1 HF                                    *                                                                      A                      B

*7.2.2 VHF                                   *                                                                      A                      B

*7.2.3 UHF                                   *                                                                      A                      B

*7.2.4 SATCOM                                *                                                                      A                      B

*7.2.5 Have Quick                            *                                                                      A                      B

7.2.6 Secure Voice Systems

*7.2.6.1 STU III                             *                                                                      A                      B

*7.2.6.2 KY-68                               *                                                                      A                      B

*7.2.6.3 Secure Telephone Equipment          *                                                                      A                      B
        (STE)
*7.2.7 Nonsecure Voice System                *                                                                      A                      B

*7.3 Tactical Digital Information Link       *                                                                      B                      B
    (TADIL) Interoperability and
    Weapon/ Air Defense System
    Interface
 8. Weather
   TR: AFMAN 15-111; AFH 11-203
*8.1 Fundamentals                            *                                                                      A                      B

*8.2 Interpret Weather Data                  *                                                                     1a                      B

 9. Basic Radar Concepts
   TR: AFTTP 3-1 Series; "Janes
   RADAR and Electronic Warfare
   Systems, and Basic RADAR
   Principles, Fighter Weapons School
   Text, January 1990"
*9.1 Radar Fundamentals                      *                                                                      A                      B




                                                       22
                                           2.                    3. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See
                                           Core                                                                    Note)
                                           Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         AB C           A             B          C          D           E               A              B             C
 References                                                                                                         3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                            3 5 7        Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (2) (1)  (2) (1)  (2)
                                           Lvl Lvl Lvl   Start        Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC Crse CDC Crse CDC


*9.2 Sensor Characteristics                    *                                                                      A                      B

*9.3 Sensor Types                              *                                                                      A                      B

10. Basic Operational Functions

 10.1 Checklists
  TR: AFI 13-1MCS Volume 3
*10.1.1 Checklist Concepts                     *                                                                      A                      B

*10.1.2 Use Checklists                         *                                                                     1a                      B

*10.1.3 Checklist Development/Change           *                                                                      _                      A
      Recommendation Process
*10.2 Operate Console Displays                 *                                                                     1a                      _

 10.3 Surveillance Operations
  TR: AFI 13-1 Series, AFDD 2.2.1;
    Litton Handbooks (MCE Systems
    only); TM 637/008/04, and Positional
 Handbook MCE P3198-2
*10.3.1 Detect Tracks                          *                                                                     2b                      B

*10.3.2 Report Tracks                          *                                                                     2b                      B

*10.3.3 Maintain Track Continuity              *                                                                     2b                      B

 10.4 Identification Functions
  TR: AFDD 2.2.1
*10.4.1 Perform Track Correlation              *                                                                     2b                      B
      Using Flight Plan/ATO/ACO Data
*10.4.2 Apply Electronic Methods (Mode         *                                                                     2b                      B
      1, 2, 3, & 4)
*10.4.3 Apply ID Matrix                        *                                                                     2b                      B

*10.4.4 Conduct Pending/Unknown                *                                                                     2b                      B
      Procedures
  TR: N 10-15
 10.5 Weapons Fundamentals
  TR: AFI 11-214, AFTTP 3-1 Series;
    AFTTP 3-3, Volume 3
*10.5.1 Mission and Aircraft Types
  TR: AFDD1; AFDD2-1; AFI 11-214




                                                         23
                                           2.                    3. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                   Training/Information Provided (See
                                           Core                                                                    Note)
                                           Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         AB C           A             B          C          D           E               A              B             C
 References                                                                                                         3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                            3 5 7        Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (2) (1)  (2) (1)  (2)
                                           Lvl Lvl Lvl   Start        Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC Crse CDC Crse CDC


*10.5.1.1 Offensive Counter Air (OCA),         *                                                                      A                      B
       Defensive Counter Air (DCA),
       Airborne Early Warning (AEW),
       Search and Rescue (SAR), Air
       Interdiction (AI), Suppression of
       Enemy Air Defenses (SEAD),
       Close Air Support (CAS)
*10.5.1.2 Aircraft Categories (Fighter,        *                                                                      A                      B
       Bomber, C2ISR, UAV, Support)
 10.5.1.3 Aircraft Types (F-15/16/22, A-       *                                                                      _                      A
       10, B-1B, B-52, E-2, E-3, RJ,
       JSTARS, Predator, Global Hawk,
       C-17, C-130, KC-10, KC-135)
  TR: AFTTP 3-3; Janes All the World's
       Aircraft
*10.5.2 Tactics                                *                                                                      A                      B
  TR: AFTTP 3-1 Series
 10.5.3 Continuum of Control
  TR: AFI 11-214
 10.5.3.1 Close                                *                                                                      A                      B

10.5.3.2 Tactical                              *                                                                      A                      B

10.5.3.3 Broadcast                             *                                                                      A                      B

10.5.3.4 Advisory                              *                                                                      A                      B

10.5.3.5 Autonomous                            *                                                                      A                      B

 10.6 Electronic Warfare
  TR: AFPD 10-7, AFDD 205, JP 3-51,
    AFI 10-707, AFI 10-703
*10.6.1 Electronic Attack (EA)/                *                                                                      A                      B
      Electronic Protection (EP)
*10.6.2 Operator Techniques                    *                                                                      A                      _

10.7 Mission Planning

*10.7.1 Concept                                *                                                                      A                      B

 10.7.2 Mission Planning Information
      Sources
  TR: AFTTP 3.1.1
*10.7.2.1 Air Tasking Order (ATO)              *                                                                      B                      B

*10.7.2.2 Airspace Control Order (ACO)         *                                                                      B                      B
*10.7.2.3 OPTASKLINK                           *                                                                      B                      B




                                                         24
                                         2.                    3. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                 Training/Information Provided (See
                                         Core                                                                    Note)
                                         Tasks
 1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical       AB C           A             B          C          D           E               A              B             C
 References                                                                                                       3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                          3 5 7        Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (2) (1)  (2) (1)  (2)
                                         Lvl Lvl Lvl   Start        Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC Crse CDC Crse CDC


10.7.2.4 Daily Intelligence Summary          *                                                                      _                      B
      (DISUM)
10.7.2.5 Governing Theater Directives                                                                               _                      _

*10.7.2.6 Rules of Engagement                                                                                       A                      B
       (ROE)/Special Instructions
       (SPINS)
 10.7.3 Mission Briefing                                                                                            _                      _

 10.8 Prepare Reports
  TR: AFI 10-201, 10-707; MIL-STD-
    6040, AFMAN 10-206
 10.8.1 United States Message Text                                                                                  _                      A
      Format (USMTF)
 10.8.2 Operational Reports (SITREP,                                                                                _                      A
      OPREP-3 Homeline, Beeline,
      Pinnacle)
 10.8.3 Electromagnetic Interference                                                                                _                      A
      (EMI) Reports
 10.8.4 Status of Resources and                                                                                     _                      A
      Training System (SORTS) Reports
 10.9 Emergency Actions
  TR: NI 10-4; MCM 151-92; ACC
    Emergency Actions Procedures
*10.9.1 Alert Conditions (LERTCONS)          *                                                                      A                      B

10.9.2 Alerting Networks                                                                                            _                      _

10.9.3 Process Emergency Action                                                                                     _                      _
     Messages
10.10 Associated C2 Systems

*10.10.1 Operate Theater Battle              *                                                                     1a                      B
     Management Core Systems
     (TBMCS) Force Level
  TR: TBMCS User handbook
*10.10.2 Air Defense System Integrator                                                                              A                      B
     (ADSI)
  TR: ADSI User Handbook
*10.10.3 Global Command and Control                                                                                 A                      B
     System (GCCS)
  TR: CJCSI 6721.01A, CJCSI
     6721.02A; GCCS User Handbook,
     GCCS/COP Familiarization 33G-
     B00 Authorized by AETC, and
     COP Handbook Version 1.0
*




                                                       25
                                            2.                    3. Certification For OJT                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                                                                                    Training/Information Provided (See
                                            Core                                                                    Note)
                                            Tasks
  1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical         AB C           A             B          C          D           E               A              B             C
  References                                                                                                         3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level 7 Skill Level
                                             3 5 7        Tng            Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier      (1)      (2) (1)  (2) (1)  (2)
                                            Lvl Lvl Lvl   Start        Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC Crse CDC Crse CDC


 10.11 Use Reference systems
  TR: AFI 13-1MCS Volume 3, AFI 11-
    214; FM 3-25-26
*10.11.1 World Geographic Reference             *                                                                     2b                      B
     System (GEOREF)

*10.11.2 Latitude/Longitude                     *                                                                     2b                      B
     (LAT/LONG)

*10.11.3 Bearing/Range                          *                                                                     2b                      B

*10.11.4 Universal Transverse Mercator          *                                                                     2b                      B
     (UTM)

Note 1: BLK #4: Columns (1) & (2) can be relabeled to meet CF Requirements; i.e., 2 phase 3 skill level courses, 5
level QTPs.


Note 2: Wartime Tasks, identified by an asterisk (*) to the left of the task statements in column #1, are
tasks identified by the MAJCOM Functional Managers that must continue to be taught when HQ AETC
implements the wartime course chart. This would occur if the resident 3-level course was directed to
expand student flow above the trained personnel requirement (TPR) to satisfy wartime training
requirements. Core Tasks, identified by an asterisk (*) in column #2, identify the minimum essential
tasks required to perform the duty expected of a person in each skill level of the specialty.




                                                          26
SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST

This area is reserved.

SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIAL

There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.

SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

4. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty and shows
how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.

5. Air Force In-Residence Courses.

  COURSE NUMBER             COURSE TITLE                                       LOCATION
  * E3ABR1C531 007          Aerospace Control and Warning Systems               Keesler AFB, MS
                            Apprentice

  Z-WD-MCS-PP               Weapons Director Modular Control Systems           Papago Park Military
                            Training                                           Reservation, Phoenix, AZ
  ACC AWDC                  Advanced Weapons Director Course                   Nellis AFB, NV
* Being replaced by E3ABR1C531 00AA. Tentative start date 20050502

6. Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses.

  COURSE NUMBER             COURSE TITLE                                       USER
  CDC 1C551                 Aerospace Control and Warning Systems              Unit


7. Exportable Courses

  COURSE NUMBER             COURSE TITLE                                       USER
  There are currently no exportable courses available. This area is reserved.


8. Courses Under Development/Revision

  COURSE NUMBER               COURSE TITLE                                     USER
  * E3ABR1C531 00AA           Aerospace Control and Warning Systems             AF
                              Apprentice
* Replaces E3ABR1C531 007. Tentative start date 20050307

SECTION E - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS

9. Air Combat Command Courses.




                                                   27
 COURSE NUMBER         COURSE TITLE                                      LOCATION
 ACC MCS-ST              Modular Control System, Initial Qualification   607 ACS, Luke AFB, AZ
                         Training, Surveillance Technician
 ACC MCS-WD              Modular Control System, Initial Qualification   607 ACS, Luke AFB, AZ
                         Training, Weapons Director
 AOCCIQTOFT              Air and Space Operations (AOC) Combat           502 TS, Hurlburt AFB, FL
                         Plans/Operations Technician Initial
                         Qualification (IQT) Course
 AOCCIQTICT              Air and Space Operations Center (AOC)           502 TS, Hurlburt AF, FL
                         Interface Control Technician Initial
                         Qualification Training (IQT) Course


14. Forces Command Courses.

 COURSE NUMBER            COURSE TITLE                                   LOCATION
 JT-101                   Joint Tactical Information Distribution        Joint Multi-TDL School
                          System (JTIDS)                                 (JMTS), Fort McPherson,
                                                                         GA
 JT-102                   Multi-DTL Advanced Joint Interoperability      Joint Multi-TDL School
                          Course (MAJIC)                                 (JMTS), Fort McPherson,
                                                                         GA




                                              28
