DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                          CFETP 3H0XX
Headquarters US Air Force                              Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                            1 October 2000




                                  AFSC 3H0XX


                                  HISTORIAN




                            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION


                              AND TRAINING PLAN
         CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN (Enlisted CFETP)
                          HISTORIAN SPECIALTY


                                             AFSC 3H0XX


                                           Table of Contents



PART I

  Preface

  Abbreviations/Terms Explained

  Section A, General Information
    Purpose of the CFETP
    Use of the CFETP
    Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

  Section B, Career Progression and Information
    Specialty Description
    Skill/Career Progression
        Retrainee (1-level)
        Apprentice Level (3)
        Journeyman Level (5)
        Craftsman Level (7)
        Superintendent Level (9)
    Training Decisions
    Community College of the Air Force
    Career Field Path

  Section C, Skill Level Training Requirements
    Purpose
    Specialty Qualification
        Apprentice Level (3)
        Journeyman Level (5)
        Craftsman Level (7)
        Superintendent Level (9)

  Section D, Resource Constraints
        Purpose
        Apprentice Level Training
        Five Level Training
        Seven Level Training

  Section E, Transitional Training Guide
_________________________
Supersedes: CFETP 3H0XX, Oct 96                   Certified By: HQ USAF/HO (SMSgt Walt Grudzinskas)
OPR: HQ USAF/HO (SMSgt Walt Grudzinskas)                               Number of Printed Pages: 41
PART II

  Section A, Specialty Training Standard
        Implementation
        Purpose
        Recommendations

  Section B, Course Objective List
        Measurement
        Standard
        Proficiency Level
        Course Objectives

  Section C, Support Material
        Purpose

  Section D, Training Course Index
        Purpose
        Air Force Residence Courses
        AFIADL Courses
        Exportable Courses
        Courses Under Development/Revision

  Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements




_________________________
Supersedes: CFETP 3H0XX, Oct 96              Certified By: HQ USAF/HO (SMSgt Walt Grudzinskas)
OPR: HQ USAF/HO (SMSgt Walt Grudzinskas)                          Number of Printed Pages: 41
                                                                                                 Page 1




                                    HISTORIAN SPECIALTY
                                           AFSC 3H0XX
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN


Part I


Preface


1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. Supervisors will use it to plan,
manage, and control training within the career field. The CFETP provides personnel a clear
career path to success and instills rigor in all aspects of career field training. NOTE: Civilians
occupying associated positions are strongly encouraged to use Part II to support career
development and training.


2. The CFETP consists of two parts.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression information,
duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path; Section C associates each
level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other); Section D indicates
resource constraints such as funds, manpower, equipment, facilities; Section E identifies transition
training requirements for SSgt through MSgt.
2.2. Part II includes five sections. Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, technical references, Air Education and Training Command (AETC)
conducted training, wartime course requirements, core task, and correspondence course
requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and training standards supervisors will
use to determine if airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C identifies available support
materials. Section D identifies a training course index of mandatory and optional courses
supervisors can use to determine resources available to support training. Section E identifies
MAJCOM-unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training
required for the associated qualification needs.
3. Using the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient training
at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to train today's work force for
tomorrow's jobs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and
conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.
                                                                                                Page 2




ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED


Advanced Training (AT). Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in one or
more positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance
their expertise in the career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of
the AFS.
Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL). Air University
organization that assists the functional community in the development of CDCs and other
correspondence courses/ materials. It distributes, scores tests, and maintains student enrollment
and performance records.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS/
CJQS). Comprehensive task list describing a particular job type or duty position. Supervisors
use them to document task qualifications. The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons
serving in the described duty position.
Air Force Specialty (AFS). Group of positions requiring common qualifications. Each AFS has
a title and a code.
Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). Set of numbers and alpha characters used to identify an
AFS. Officer AFSCs consist of four characters; airman AFSCs consist of five characters.
Air Reserve Components (ARC). Refers to members of both the Air National Guard and the
Air Force Reserve.
Allocation Curves. The relation of hours of training in different training settings to the degree of
proficiency that can be achieved on specified performance requirements.
Career Development Course (CDC). Correspondence course developed by the functional
community and AFIADL for the purpose of satisfying AFS upgrade training requirements.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). Comprehensive, multi-purpose
document encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It
outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field
training identifiable, eliminate duplication, and ensure this training is budget defensible.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM). Skill-level identifiers are replaced by CEM codes for Chief
Master Sergeants.
Continuation Training. Additional training beyond minimum requirements with emphasis on
present or future duty assignments.
Core Task. A task the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as a minimum
qualification requirement within an Air Force specialty.
Course Objective List (COL). Derived from initial/advanced skills course training standard, the
COL identifies tasks, knowledge requirements, and respective standards to achieve a 3-/7-skill
level. Supervisors use the COL in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-
2201, Developing, Managing and Conducting Military Training Programs.
                                                                                                Page 3




Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or
other necessary means to supplement training.
Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a field
training detachment (FTD) or by a mobile training team.
Initial Skills Training. Formal resident course that awards the 3-skill level to graduates.
Instructional System Development (ISD). Deliberate, orderly, but flexible process designed for
planning, developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are
taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge, skills, and attitudes for successful job performance.
Occupational Survey Report (OSR). Detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.
Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.
Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
individual in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training program
occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills required to do the job.
Qualification Training Package (QTP). Instructional package designed for use at the unit to
qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be
printed, computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.
Resource Constraints. Limiting factors or deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time,
manpower, and equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.
Skills Training. Formal course designed to award a skill level.
Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-
job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in the award of a skill level.
Specialty Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite of
lesson plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct
training. These packages are prepared by AETC, approved by National Security Agency (NSA),
and administered by qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). Section in the CFETP that describes skills and knowledge
an airman in a particular AFS needs to do the job. It further serves as a contract between AETC
and the user to show overall training requirements for an AFSC that the formal schools teach.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results.
Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements)
of the United States Air Force.
                                                                                                Page 4




Training Capacity. The ability of a training setting to provide training on specified
requirements, based on the availability of resources.
Training Impact Decision System (TIDES). Computer-based decision support technology
being designed to assist AFCFMs in making critical judgments relevant to what training should be
provided personnel within career fields, when training should be provided (at what career points),
and where training should be conducted (training setting).
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, however TPTs
are more intimately involved in training development and the range of issues is greater than found
in a normal U&TW forum.
Training Requirements Analysis. Detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included
in the training decision process.
Training Setting. Type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-
job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).
Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training leading to a higher level of proficiency.
Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to and the jobs
performed by personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or AFS. There are two types
of patterns: 1) Current pattern, based on the training provided to incumbents and the jobs to
which they have been/are assigned; and 2) Alternate pattern, considers proposed changes in
manpower, personnel, and training policies.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) . AFCFM conducts this forum of MAJCOM
AFSC functional managers, subject matter experts ( SMEs), and training personnel to determine
career ladder training requirements.




Section A - General Information
1. Purpose. This CFETP provides information necessary for the Air Force Career Field Manager
(AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers ( MFMs), commanders, training managers, supervisors
and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective career field training program.
This plan outlines the training historians should receive in order to develop and progress
throughout their career. It identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and
proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS specific training an individual receives for
award of the 3-skill level. For the Historian AFS, this training is conducted by AETC at the Ira C.
Eaker College for Professional Development (CPD), Maxwell AFB AL. Upgrade training
identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and correspondence course
completion requirements for award of the 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels. Qualification training is actual
hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This
training occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills/knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty
training conducted by CPD that leads to the award of the 7-skill level in the Historian AFS.
Proficiency training is additional training, either residence or exportable advanced training
                                                                                                   Page 5




courses, or on-the-job training, provided to increase personnel skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum requirements for upgrade. The CFETP has the following purposes:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program.
1.2. Helps supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an individual's career.
1.3. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.
1.4. Lists training courses for the specialty, identifying training sources and delivery method.
1.5. Identifies major resource constraints preventing full implementation of the desired career
field training process.


2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty. This CFETP
applies to all active duty, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve personnel holding the
3H011/31/51/71/91/00 AFSC. Throughout the plan, requirements are the same for all AFSC
holders across the three components unless specially noted otherwise.
2.1. USAF Historian Development School (CPD/HO) personnel will develop/revise formal
resident, non-resident, and exportable training based on requirements established by the users and
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will work with the AFCFM as well as AETC, AU,
and CPD personnel to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide
the identified training.
2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable
courses can satisfy MAJCOM-identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to support
this AFS must be identified for inclusion into plan.
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The
lists of courses in Part II, Section D, will be used as a reference to support training.


3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate on career field training
requirements. The AFCFM for the 3H0XX AFSC will initiate an annual review of this document
by CPD/HO and MFMs to ensure currency and accuracy. Submit recommendations for changes
to the AFCFM for final review and approval.




Section B - Career Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description. Air Force History exists to provide the Air Force leadership with
accurate historical information that helps decision makers understand the present and plan for the
future. To accomplish this mission, Air Force History maintains a structured history function to
                                                                                                  Page 6




gather, organize, analyze, and disseminate information in both peace and war; it maintains
museum functions to collect, preserve, and display the USAF’s cultural and material heritage.
The following information on the historian specialty is based on AFMAN 36-2108. It provides a
description of a broad range of duties and responsibilities that apply to the various skills levels of
the AFSC.
4.1. Specialty Summary. An Air Force historian prepares accurate, analytical, and
comprehensive periodic histories; deploys and documents unit involvement in war and
contingency operations; provides historical reference services to commanders, staff, higher
headquarters, DoD agencies, and the public; assembles and maintains historical document
repositories for reference and research; assists in preparing historical displays and exhibits;
performs research, interviews personnel, attends meetings, and writes analytical essays, articles,
studies, and other publications assigned or approved by the commander or higher headquarters;
serves as Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for heraldry and lineage and honors; advises
commander on functional area issues; manages historical activities, programs and functions; and
performs office management and administrative tasks.
4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. The duties and responsibilities of the historian specialty are
arranged below starting with items that generally apply to all skill levels within the AFSC and
proceeding to items that apply primarily to progressively higher skill levels. For example, most of
the first four paragraphs apply to all skill levels while the final paragraph applies primarily to the
9-skill level and CEM.
4.2.1. Understands air power development and unit history. Uses expertise to provide historical
research and reference services to commanders, staffs, other Air Force and federal agencies, and
the public. Seeks opportunities to provide historical information. Receives and assigns priority to
historical information queries. Uses reference materials, unit knowledge, and research experience
to answer queries. Provides historical information to requester and documents activity.
4.2.2. Maintains historical repository. Collects and organizes selected historical reference and
research publications as well as documents and photographs with significance to unit activities
and history. Develops and maintains up-to-date finding aids for repository.
4.2.3. Performs periodic historical research to gather data on unit activities. Conducts extensive
review of unit files (paper and electronic). Systematically collects and organizes historical data
from correspondence, messages, staff studies, reports, plans, meeting minutes, and other source
documents. Attends meetings and briefings to document important deliberations and decisions.
Participates in unit exercises and operations to collect data and gain first-hand experience with
unit mission. Interviews key unit personnel for unique knowledge and insights.
4.2.4. Prepares historical publications and presentations, including periodic histories, studies, and
papers. Determines topics of special interest or importance. Critically evaluates data for
accuracy, objectivity, and pertinence. Writes well organized, fully documented, analytical
narratives. Prepares charts, tables, graphs, and statistical summaries. Uses selected photographs
to support narrative. Selects, reproduces, and assembles supporting documents. Places proper
security markings, downgrading instructions, and administrative caveats on products.
4.2.5. Performs office management and administrative duties. Identifies, plans, and maintains
facility, equipment, security, and supply requirements. Prepares letters, messages, reports, and
staff papers. Maintains publications, and administrative and historical files; properly controls
                                                                                             Page 7




classified material. Operates computer systems and associated peripherals and programs,
telephone answering machines, audio and video recorders, microfilm viewer/printers, and
photographic equipment.
4.2.6. Deploys to support historical requirements during contingency operations. Assembles and
maintains deployment equipment. Maintains currency in required mobility training. Participates
in unit readiness exercises. Conducts research, attends meetings, secures significant
documentation, and prepares historical reports.
4.2.7. Advises commander on museum-related issues/activities. Supports/participates in
development of historical displays and exhibits.
4.2.8. Plans, organizes, and manages history functions/activities. Advises commander and staff
on functional area issues. Drafts revisions, supplements, and annexes for directives. Coordinates
involvement in and procedures for contingency and wartime operations, and readiness exercises.
Interprets and implements policies and procedures outlined in Air Force directives, instructions,
manuals, and other publications relative to history office operations. Attends conferences,
workshops, and symposium related to functional responsibilities or unit activities. Plans,
coordinates, and accomplishes coverage of and support for special historical events. Recruits and
screens applicants for retraining to the AFS.
4.2.9. Manages subordinate unit history programs through staff visits, workshops, and review of
historical products. Conducts periodic unit visits to assess compliance with policies and
directives; discusses findings with commander and historian; recommends action to improve
operations. Reviews unit historical products; rates content, supporting documentation, and
compliance with security and administrative directives ; provides author with constructive
feedback on product’s quality. Assists in planning and conducting training workshops.
Participates in conferences, workshops, symposia, and training courses as speaker, instructor, or
panel member. Determines manpower needs and coordinates personnel assignments.


5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone be involved in planning, managing, and conducting an
effective training program. See AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, and AFI 36-2201,
Developing, Managing, Conducting Training, for specifics on requirements, procedures, and
responsibilities. The guidance provided below will ensure each individual receives viable training
at appropriate points in their career. It outlines what individuals at each skill level should
accomplish, what positions they might be assigned, what training and Professional Military
Education (PME) courses they should attend, and what they may want to consider in the area of
education. It does not include mandatory requirements for upgrade to the next higher skill
level— this information is covered in Section C.
5.1. Retrainee (1-level). All personnel enter the 3H011 AFSC by retraining from other career
fields. The typical active duty retrainee is a SSgt with 10 years time in service. Once approved
for retraining, AFPC will assign the individual to the next available class seat in the Historian
Apprentice Course. The USAF Historian Development School conducts this course at Maxwell
AFB AL. It is conducted four times per year, is 3.5 weeks in length, and provides initial skills
training for the AFS. While waiting for the assigned class date, the retrainee will normally
                                                                                                  Page 8




continue to serve in current AFS. If, through agreement at the local level, the individual is moved
to the History Office, the local historian will ensure the necessary personnel actions are
accomplished to assign the individual a duty AFSC of 3H011. Air National Guard and Air Force
Reserve personnel are selected and approved for retraining in a different manner than the active
duty. However, the same qualifications and requirements for the AFS will be used in the selection
and approval process. Once approved for retraining, ARC personnel will be scheduled to attend
the Historian Apprentice Course.
5.2. Apprentice (3) Level. Successful completion of the Historian Apprentice Course is
required for the award of the 3-skill level to active duty/ARC retrainees. Failure to complete the
course will result in cancellation of the retraining application and the return of the individual to
his/her former career field. Active duty graduates will normally move to a new assignment within
45 days of returning to their home station, unless they have been selected to fill a vacancy or
projected vacancy at their home station. The ARC graduates return to their home units. To
progress, apprentices will work with a trainer to enhance their knowledge and skills. Ideally,
retrainees will be assigned to multi-person offices, allowing a qualified historian to be the trainer.
They will use the Career Development Course and On-the-Job-Training (OJT) to progress
towards a 5-skill level in the career field. Once task certified, an apprentice may perform tasks
unsupervised. The apprentice will be involved in preparing a unit history, answering research
queries, and participating in unit exercises as part of their upgrade training.
5.3. Journeyman (5) Level. Completion of OJT and required CDC result in award of the 5-
level. Once upgraded, a journeyman enters into continuation training to broaden their experience
base. As a minimum, this includes attending MAJCOM workshops and symposia related to the
specialty, assigned unit, or MAJCOM. Individuals should pursue continuing education that
enhances office management skills since success in the AFS hinges as much on one’s ability to run
an office effectively and efficiently as it does on competence as a researcher and writer. The
typical journeyman will be assigned to a multi-person office at a large unit or be assigned to a
one-deep history office at a small wing or group with a straightforward mission. Journeymen are
also eligible for contingency/wartime deployment operations. Depending upon the rank and TIS
of the apprentice, they should attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) if they have not already
completed it. For active duty members, resident ALS completion is required to assume the rank
of Staff Sergeant. Members of the ARC may complete PME/promotion requirements by
correspondence, residence, or any other approved method. All personnel are encouraged to
pursue college courses aimed at satisfying requirements for a CCAF degree. When possible,
course work should help develop the individual’s research, writing, and critical analysis skills.
5.4. Craftsman (7) Level. Journeymen who are SSgt selectees, SSgts, or higher, will
immediately enter upgrade training for the 7-skill level. All personnel will attend the resident
Historian Craftsman Course. The USAF Historian Development School conducts this 2-week
course at Maxwell AFB AL. Successful completion of both an OJT program and the resident
course results in upgrade to the 7-skill level. Assignments for the historian craftsman are likely to
be at one-deep offices in large, complex wings or as the senior person in a two-deep unit-level
office. Unlike many other career fields, supervisory and management opportunities are limited for
historians since most offices are one- or two-deep. Therefore historians continue to be
technicians throughout their careers. They are encouraged to take advantage of leadership
opportunities through involvement in unit committees and professional organizations when
available. They should seek opportunities to participate in workshops, panels, and other activities
                                                                                                Page 9




supporting the AFS. All AFS members are air power historians; seven-levels should strive to
expand their knowledge on Air Force doctrine, air power history, Air Force weapon systems, war
planning, joint doctrine and operations, and management of resources and personnel. By the time
the typical craftsman has completed 5 years in the career field, they should be capable of filling the
majority of assignments within the program. Completion of the CCAF degree is strongly
encouraged along with the pursuit of higher degree programs. For active duty members, resident
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA) completion is required to assume the rank of MSgt ;
members are eligible to attend upon selection to TSgt. Members of the ARC may complete
PME/promotion requirements by correspondence, residence, or any other approved method.
5.5. Superintendent (9) Level. Award of the 9-skill level requires an individual to perform
satisfactorily in the AFSC, be a SMSgt, and have completed the Senior Noncommissioned Officer
Academy (SNCOA). For active duty members, resident SNCOA completion is required to
assume the rank of CMSgt; members are eligible to attend upon selection to SMSgt. For ARC
members, SNCOA completion is required for promotion to SMSgt; members may complete PME
and promotion requirements by correspondence, residence, or any other approved method. Most
superintendent positions are in History Offices at MAJCOM/USAF headquarters. The historian
career field is unusual in that it requires most people in superintendent positions to continue to be
technicians and maintain skills in research and writing of historical publications. Regardless of
position, all 9-level and CEM individuals are considered leaders in the career field and are
expected to take every opportunity to provide leadership and mentorship to less-experienced
historians. While not supervisors in the traditional sense, the AFS is dependent on their
supervisory skills to provide training and counsel to the rest of the field. Individuals should
pursue training in the areas of war planning, joint operations, budget, manpower, and resources
and personnel management through continuing education and self-study. Completion of
additional higher education and courses related to the AFS are strongly encouraged.


6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
describe the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Historian career field. The spectrum
includes a strategy outlining when, where, and how to meet these requirements. This CFETP was
developed during a Utilization and Training Workshop conducted at Maxwell AFB in February
2000. It was modified from the previous CFETP, dated 31 October 1996, and complies with
AFMAN 36-2245, Managing Career Field Education and Training, which stipulates format and
content. MFMs and AETC TM finalized coordination in May 2000.
6.1. Initial Skills. As an AFSC-awarding course, the Historian Apprentice Course (HAC) drew
heavily on the curriculum of the Unit Historian Development Course (UHDC), which the History
Program had conducted as a continuing education course for 20 years without any permanent
staff. Members of the 1994 U&TW elected to focus 3-level training on the skills needed
immediately after graduation; they recommend a review of the course content once the 5-level
CDC was developed. As a result, the initial HAC emphasized the basic research and writing skills
required to produce periodic histories and other historical products. Members of the 2000
U&TW were pleased with the course content, but recommended an expansion of contingency
training to meet current mobility requirements under the Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) concept.
The school staff added a mobility-centric exercise and revised portions of other instructional
blocks to enhance contingency training without increasing course length (18 academic days).
                                                                                              Page 10




U&TW attendees decided a 3-skill level historian can deploy with an AEF, but only after
coordination with MAJCOM/HO.
6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Requirements. Overall, workshop attendees emphasized the
importance of the career field’s CDC (available only on CD-ROM format). Most historians work
in one- or two-person offices throughout their career. Because they are unable to readily tap the
knowledge and experience of an office mate, the 5-level course had to incorporate a much
broader expanse of issues than the 5-level courses used by most other AFSs. The CD-ROM
interactive course has surpassed expectations; it is a very effective tool for translating and
teaching the “common knowledge” necessary to guide historians to a successful, productive
career. Members of the 2000 U&TW recommended revisions to the CD-ROM to bolster
contingency knowledge and training, but decided not to establish a career field need date at this
time. They also agreed to implement a standardized program for training and certifying
individuals engaged in 5-level training, as outlined below:
6.2.1. Units with historians in 5-level upgrade training will request a MAJCOM/HO staff visit
approximately nine months after the historian enters 5-level upgrade training. An experienced
“trainer” designated by the MAJCOM historian, will conduct a 3- to 5-day visit to provide on-
scene guidance, instruction, and quality assurance for completion of tasks listed in the 3H0XX
Career Field Education and Training Plan.
6.2.2. Upon completion of at least one periodic history rated satisfactory or better, and the above
visit, MAJCOM/HO will recommend upgrade. The historian’s supervisor will send the
individual’s training records to MAJCOM/HO for final review and certification by the certifier
appointed within the MAJCOM/HO. MAJCOM/HO must certify completion of
training/recommend upgrade.
6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Requirements. The 7-level residence course is designed to produce
graduates able to evaluate and employ additional research resources and techniques in the
preparation of special studies. The course emphasizes the use of IRIS, interviews, and historical
repositories. The 2000 U&TW reviewed the residence attendance requirement and decided this
was essential to provide the managerial and supervisory skills required by 7-level historians.
Additionally, U&TW attendees noted the important role the USAF Historical Research Agency at
Maxwell AFB AL played in the 7-level course and the numerous benefits students gained because
of this close working relationship. Members also strongly recommended incorporating the
History of Air Power Course as a mandatory 7-level upgrade requirement.
6.4. On-The-Job Training Requirements. In addition to these formal training courses, the
workshop also emphasized the importance of the OJT program on the Historian career field. To
improve this aspect of the training program, core tasks were divided between those applicable at
the 5-level and 7-level. Additionally because of the numerous one-deep history offices in the Air
Force, major command history offices are going to play a more direct role in the OJT process.
For one-deep offices, the MAJCOM will provide a trainer and certifier. When a local trainer is
available, the MAJCOM will still provide the certifier.
6.4.1. As a result of this U&TW, the STS went from 11 to 8 section headings, 207 to 109 core
tasks, 320 to 230 total tasks, and 19 to 12 pages. U&TW participants accomplished these
reductions by eliminating unneeded tasks and streamlining the entire CFETP. Participants worked
hard to reach a balance between streamlining and providing enough detail to facilitate the trainees’
                                                                                                Page 11




learning objectives. In fact, in the areas of key historical tasks, the new CFETP actually provides
additional detail on training specifics for trainers. By making the training plan more succinct,
workshop participants created an improved, user-friendly CFETP.
6.5. Proficiency Training. The continuation training program provides training beyond
minimum upgrade requirements. MFMs must develop continuation training that ensures
individual historians receive training appropriate to their skill level and position to meet present
and future duty requirements. The training program will identify both mandatory and optional
training requirements. MFMs must identify both mandatory and optional training requirements.
6.5.1. All enlisted historians must maintain their proficiency in contingency related duties. They
must participate in a contingency exercise or deployment at least once every three years;
participation in “real world” contingency operations satisfies this requirement. More frequent
participation is strongly encouraged.
6.5.2. Quality assessments of historical publications provide constructive feedback to historians,
increasing individual proficiency and productivity.
6.5.3. MAJCOM/ARC workshops and conferences provide proficiency training and education.
All historians must attend these functions.
6.5.4. All historians are encouraged to attend selected historical symposia to gain increased
understanding of air power history and air power's role in military operations.
6.5.5. All historians must develop their expertise on air power issues through extensive reading
programs. In addition to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force’s Reading List, the U&TW
recommended MAJCOM/HOs develop and provide to assigned historians professional reading
lists that focus on command operations, issues, and concerns.
6.5.6. Historians at all levels need to increase their general knowledge of Air Force history.
Workshop attendees noted that at this time there was no standardized training available to tie into
mandatory upgrade requirements. However, future workshops and other reviews of the CFETP
may look for ways to incorporate such mandatory upgrade training into the plan. Possible ideas
include resurrecting ECI Course 50, requiring attendance of the Air Power History course, or
adapting the book Winged Shield, Winged Sword into a training plan.


7. Community College of the Air Force. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic
military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Science
Degree. In addition to its associate’s degree program, CCAF offers the following:
7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification
training, consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF
instructors who possess an associate’s degree or higher may be nominated by their school
commander/commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.
                                                                                                                                          Page 12




7.2. Aerospace Historian (9DHK) Associate Degree Requirements. The journeyman (five)
level must be held at the time of program completion.
                                                                                                                           Semester Hours
Technical Education .............. ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ..........                24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ......... .......... ........... .......... ........... ..........                                6
Physical Education ............... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ..........                 4
General Education ................. ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ..........               15
Program Elective................... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ..........               15
           Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
           Studies; or General Education
Total .. ........... ...................... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... .......... ........... ..........       64


7.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects/courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from
Technical Core/Technical Elective courses .
7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.
7.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.
7.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF General
Catalog.
7.2.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects/courses, including
natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six semester hours of CCAF degree
applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be applied. See the
CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.
7.3. Off-Duty Education. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged
for all. Individuals desiring to become an Air Education and Training Command Instructor should
be actively pursuing an associate’s degree. A degreed faculty is necessary to maintain
accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
                                                                                                                      Page 13




   8. Career Field Path.
   8.1. Manpower Table. Authorizations as of 1 January 2000.


   Table A6.1. Manpower Table (authorizations).
                 CMSgt SMSgt        MSgt        TSgt                            SSgt              Total
   Base Level      0        5         22         26                              38               91
   MAJCOM
   Staff           3        2         2          0                                 0               7
   HQ USAF
   Staff           1        0         0          0                                0                1
   FOA/DRU         0        1         5          4                                3                13
   Total           4        8         29         30                               41              112

   8.2. Enlisted Career Path. Following table is based on a SSgt retrainee; adjust as necessary for
   retrainees with higher ranks. References: AFI 36-2301, Chap 4, PME eligibility and related
   promotion requirements; AFI 36-2101, Table 2.4, Skill level criteria.

Table A6.2. Enlisted Career Path
                                                                       GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training                                 Rank        AF Average          Earliest           High Year Of Tenure
                                                                    Sew-On             Sew-On                   (HYT)
Requirements
Historian Apprentice Course                            SSgt        7.5 years           3 years                20 years
(3-skill level)
Upgrade To Journeyman                                  SSgt        7.5 years           3 years                20 years
(5-Skill Level)
- Minimum 15 months on-the-job training (OJT)
for initial 5-skill level upgrade and 9 months OJT
for retrainees with a previous 5-skill level .
- Complete CDC.
Airman Leadership School (ALS)                                                         Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service or    - Recommended by the supervisor.
be a SSgt Selectee.                                  - Qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt     - Attend the formal AF Training Course and appointed by the Commander .
sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Craftsman                                   SSgt        7.5 years           3 years                20 years
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Minimum 18 months OJT for initial award of a 7-
skill level and minimum 12 months for retrainees
with a previous 7-skill level.
- Complete Historian Craftsman Course.
                                                                                       Certifier
                                                     - At least a SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian equivalent.
                                                     - Someone other than the trainer (core and critical tasks only).
                                                     - Are qualified and certified to perform the task being certified.
                                                     - Attend the formal AF Training Course and appointed by the Commander.
                                                                                                  Page 14




Table A6.2. Enlisted Career Path (Cont.)
Noncommissioned Officer Academy        TSgt                 12.5 years   5 years           20 years
(NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only).                          MSgt     16 years    8 years           24 years
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                     SMSgt   19.2 years   11 years          26 years
- Must be a MSgt, SMSgt Selectee, or SMSgt.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for CMSgt
sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent                           CMSgt   21.5 years   14 years          30 years
(9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
- Must be a resident graduate of SNCOA (Active
Duty Only).


  Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements
  9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and
  knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each
  skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award,
  and retention of each skill level; it is derived from AFMAN 36-2108. The specific task and
  knowledge requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Section A, of this CFETP.


  10. Specialty Qualification:
  10.1. Apprentice Level Training:
  10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. The information in the following sub-paragraphs reflects the
  requirements for retraining into the AFSC and the award of the 3-skill level.
  10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: Air Force history, organization, functions,
  and terminology; English composition and grammar; interviewing techniques; contingency and
  wartime operational planning; USAF History and Museum Program directives; computer systems
  and office automation applications; and historical repositories and reference services.
  10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school or general
  educational development equivalency is mandatory. Completion of college-level courses in
  history, English, speech, technical writing, and political science is desirable.
  10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 3H031, completion of the Historian Apprentice Course
  is mandatory.
  10.1.1.4. Experience. None for award of 3-skill level.
  10.1.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:
  10.1.1.5.1. For entry into this specialty:
  10.1.1.5.1.1. Prior qualification in any AFSC at the 5-skill level or higher (3-skill level if no 5-
  skill level exists).
                                                                                             Page 15




10.1.1.5.1.2. Achieve a minimum General score of 69 on Armed Forces Vocational Aptitude
Battery (ASVAB).
10.1.1.5.1.3. Overall rating of 4 or 5 on last five enlisted performance reports.
10.1.1.5.1.4. Outstanding military bearing and conduct.
10.1.1.5.1.5. No record of an Article 15 or conviction by court-martial.
10.1.1.5.1.6. No record of conviction by a civilian court, except for minor traffic violations or
similar infractions.
10.1.1.5.1.7. Familiarity with office automation software.
10.1.1.5.1.8. Achieve a minimum strength aptitude code of G (weight lift of 40 pounds).
10.1.1.5.1.9. Have the following physical profile series factors or higher: P-3, U-3, L-3, H-2, E-
3, S-3. See AFMAN 48-123, Attachment 12, for definitions of these factors.
10.1.1.5.1.10. Not open to non-United States citizens; Open to United States nationals.
10.1.1.5.2. For award and retention of AFSCs 3H031/51/71/91/00, eligibility for a Top Secret
security clearance according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Management Program.
10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The Historian Apprentice Course provides basic
knowledge in all areas listed in paragraph 10.1.1.1. It also provides practical application through
classroom exercises/projects in areas of English composition and grammar, research methods, and
computer systems and office automation software.
10.1.3. Implementation. The 3-skill level is awarded upon successful residence completion of
the Historian Apprentice Course (M3ABR3H031).
10.2. Journeyman Level Training:
10.2.1 Specialty Qualification. The information in the following sub-paragraphs reflects the
requirements for the award of the 5-skill level.
10.2.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: Air Force history, organization, functions,
and terminology; English composition and grammar; interviewing techniques; contingency and
wartime operational planning; USAF History and Museum Program directives; computer systems
and office automation applications; and historical repositories and reference services.
10.2.1.2. Education. Completion of college-level courses in history, English, speech, technical
writing, and political science is desirable.
10.2.1.3. Training. Completion of CDC, Historian Journeyman Course, is mandatory for award
of 3H051 AFSC.
10.2.1.4. Experience. Mandatory experience for award of the 3H051 AFSC: Qualification in
and possession of AFSC 3H031 for minimum of 15 months for initial 5-skill level, or 9 months for
retrainees with a previous 5-skill level. Experience performing historical research and writing and
in using computer office automation applications to store, access, and manipulate data.
Completion of CDC. Completion of all CFETP/STS 5-level core tasks.
10.2.1.5. Other. For award and retention of AFSCs 3H031/51/71/91/00, eligibility for a Top
Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501.
                                                                                            Page 16




10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. Enroll in the CDC (3H051M) through AFIADL.
This course satisfies knowledge requirements for the award of the 3H051 AFSC. Completion of
training in Wartime Duties can best be satisfied through involvement in unit deployments for
exercises and other similar training events.
10.2.3. Implementation. The 5-skill level is awarded by unit authority upon completion of all
OJT tasks identified in Part II, Section A, along with completion of CDC.
10.3. Craftsman Level Training:
10.3.1 Specialty Qualification. The information in the following sub-paragraphs reflects the
requirements for the award of the 7-skill level.
10.3.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: Air Force history, organization, functions,
and terminology; English composition and grammar; interviewing techniques; contingency and
wartime operational planning; USAF History and Museum Program directives; computer systems
and office automation applications; and historical repositories and reference services.
10.3.1.2. Education. Completion of college-level courses in history, English, speech, technical
writing, and political science is desirable.
10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of the Historian Craftsman Course is mandatory for award of
AFSC 3H071.
10.3.1.4. Experience. Mandatory experience for award of the 3H071 AFSC: Qualification in
and possession of AFSC 3H051 for minimum of 18 months for initial award of a 7-skill level, or
12 months for retrainees with a previous 7-skill level. Experience in performing or supervising
functions such as research and preparation of historical documents and special studies. Individual
must demonstrate ability to produce satisfactory products with minimal supervision and guidance.
Complete all core tasks. Completing the following courses is highly desirable : History of Air
Power Seminar, Oral History Course, and Archive Management Course.
10.3.1.5. Other. For award and retention of AFSCs 3H031/51/71/91/00, eligibility for a Top
Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501.
10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. The following training sources will help meet AFSC
knowledge and qualification requirements:
10.3.2.1. The Historian Craftsman Course (M3ACR3H071) provides skills to evaluate and
employ additional research resources to include the IRIS system in the preparation of special
studies using analytical methods and procedures to include interviews; learn the evaluation
process used in the areas of repositories, historical products, and supervision.
10.3.2.2. The History of Air Power Seminar is conducted annually by the Air Force History
Support Office. A 2-week seminar held in Washington DC, it features experts in various fields of
airpower. Graduate-level seminar; unit funded for military participants ; no course number.
10.3.2.3. The Oral History Course is a periodic event conducted by the Air Force Historical
Research Agency. The 3-day course is held at Maxwell AFB AL and focuses on refining
techniques for preparing and conducting Oral History interviews. Unit funded for military
participants ; no course number.
                                                                                              Page 17




10.3.2.4. The Archive Management Course is a periodic event conducted by the Air Force
Historical Research Agency. The 3-day course is held at Maxwell AFB AL and focuses on
refining techniques for organizing and maintaining a useful archive collection. Unit funded for
military participants ; no course number.
10.3.3. Implementation. The 7-skill level is awarded following the completion of unit OJT and
the Historian Craftsman Course (M3ACR3H071).
10.4. Superintendent Level Training:
10.4.1 Specialty Qualification. The information in the following sub-paragraphs reflects the
requirements for the award of the 9-skill level.
10.4.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: Air Force history, organization, functions,
and terminology; English composition and grammar; interviewing techniques; contingency and
wartime operational planning; USAF History and Museum Program directives; computer systems
and office automation applications; and historical repositories and reference services.
10.4.1.2. Education. Completion of college-level courses in history, English, speech, technical
writing, and political science is desirable.
10.4.1.3. Training. No formal training courses required for award of 3H091 AFSC.
10.4.1.4. Experience. Mandatory experience for award of the 3H091 AFSC: Qualification in
and possession of AFSC 3H071. Experience in developing, directing, and managing historical
programs. Completion of the Contingency Wartime Planning Course is highly desirable upon
selection for a MAJCOM-level position; it is mandatory upon selection for USAF-level position.
10.4.1.5. Other. For award and retention of AFSCs 3H031/51/71/91/00, eligibility for a Top
Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501.
10.4.2. Training Sources/Resources. The Contingency Wartime Planning Course
(MCADRE002) is conducted by AU/CADRE, Maxwell AFB AL, and is designed to provide the
basics of war planning for the functional individual who has responsibilities in OPlan and TPFDD
development, UTC management, etc.
10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-skill level is awarded on completion of SNCOA and selection
for SMSgt, provided all AFSC specific requirements are complete.




Section D - Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints which preclude optimal/desired
training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower.
Narrative explanations are included of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training. Also included in this section are actions
required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.
                                                                                             Page 18




12. Apprentice Level Training:
12.1. Constraints. None.


13. Five-Level Training:
13.1. Constraints.
With the cancellation of ECI Course 50, no course exists to expose unit historians to general
literature on the history of the Air Force.
13.1.1. Impact. Historians have limited analytical skills to assist commanders in helping them
link present operations to the past.
13.1.2. Resources Required. Replacement for or new ECI Course 50.
13.1.3. Action Required. Develop a computer based Air Force history program to be included
with CDC and/or submit formal request for updated ECI Course 50. (OPR: CPD/HO; OCR: HQ
USAF/HO)
13.2. OPR/Target Completion Date. OPR: TSgt Mark P. Stanley, DSN 493-2342. Target
date: have new module or course available by January 2002.


14. Seven-Level Training:
14.1. Constraints. None.




Section E. Transitional Training Guide
There are currently no transitional training requirements. This area is reserved.




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                                       RICHARD P. HALLION, SES, USAF
                                               Air Force Historian
                                                                                                  Page 19




                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                            HISTORIAN SPECIALTY AFSC 3H0X1

PART II


Section A - Specialty Training Standard
1. Implementation. This STS is used to develop and implement curriculum for initial skills (3-
skill level) technical training, a 5-skill level CDC, and a resident advanced skills (7-skill level)
technical training course. This STS will be used for 5-skill and 7-skill level OJT for anyone
entering training after publication of this document (those already in training may be switched to
this document at discretion of trainer or supervisor).


2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:
2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and
7-skill level. Column 2 (Core/Wartime Tasks) identifies, by (5) for 5-skill level and (7) for 7-skill
level, specialty-wide training requirements. All 3H0X1 personnel must be trained and certified on
all core tasks appropriate to their level of training. Only the base training manager in coordination
with the AFCFM can waive core task training and/or certification.
2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document
technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification/completed date.
(As a minimum, use the following column designators: Tng Comp, Certifier Initials).
2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by technical training and correspondence
courses. See CADRE/AFSC/CDC listing maintained by the unit training manager for current
CDC listings.
2.4. Contains Qualitative Requirements. The proficiency code key is used to indicate the level of
training and knowledge provided by resident training and career development courses.
2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form
623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to AFI 36-2201. When used as a JQS,
the following requirements apply:
2.5.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training. Identify duty position
requirements by circling the subparagraph number next to the task statement. As a minimum,
complete the following columns in Part 2 of the CFETP : Training Start, Training Completed,
Trainee Initials, Trainer Initials, Certifier Initials (if applicable). An AFJQS may be used in lieu of
Part II of the CFETP only upon approval of the AFCFM. NOTE: The AFCFM may supplement
these minimum documentation procedures as needed or deemed necessary for the career field.

2.5.1.1 For those core and critical tasks previously certified and required in the current duty
                                                                                                  Page 20




position, evaluate current qualifications and when verified, recertify using current date as
completion date, and enter trainee's and certifier's initials. Remember, during the transcription
process no training is taking place. Therefore, the trainer's initial are not required. For non-core
and non-critical tasks previously certified and required in the current duty position, evaluate
current qualifications and when verified, recertify using current date, as completion date and enter
trainee's and trainer's initials. . When transcribing previous certification for tasks not required in
the current duty position, carry forward only the previous completion date of certification (not the
initials of another person). If and when transcribed tasks become duty position requirements,
recertify using standard certifiation procedures.
2.5.1.2. Documenting Career Knowledge. When a CDC is not available, the supervisor identifies
STS training references that the trainee requires for career knowledge and ensures, as a minimum,
that trainees cover the mandatory items in AFMAN 36-2108 (also listed in CFETP, Part I,
Section C). For two-time CDC course exam failures, supervisors identify all STS items
corresponding to the areas covered by the CDC. The trainee completes a study of STS
references, undergoes evaluation by the task certifier, and receives certification on the STS.
NOTE: Career Knowledge must be documented prior to submitting a CDC waiver.
2.5.1.3. Decertification and Recertification. When an airman is found to be unqualified on a task
previously certified for his or her position, the supervisor lines through the previous certification
or deletes previous certification when using automated system. Appropriate remarks are entered
on the AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet, as to the reason for
decertification. The individual is recertified (if required) either by erasing the old entries and
writing in the new or by using correction fluid (if the entries were made in ink) over the previously
certified entry.
2.5.2. Training Standard. Tasks are trained and qualified to the go/no go level. Go means the
individual can perform the task without assistance and meet local demands for accuracy,
timeliness, and correct use of procedures.
2.5.3. Trainer Qualifications. Supervisors will select and recommend the most qualified trainers
regardless of skill level/AFSC; they can be military or civilian. Trainers must be qualified to
perform the tasks for which they provide training. The unit commander must appoint them in
writing. Trainers must complete the formal AF training course (or have attended previous FTD
OJT Trainer’s/Supervisor’s Courses). Source: HQ AFMPC/DPPAPEO Msg, Year of Training
Mid-Course Review Implementation Instructions, 081319Z Aug 95.
2.5.3.1. The AFCFM supports untraditional training arrangements for trainees assigned to “one-
deep offices” in units without qualified personnel to provide training. Commanders are
encouraged to use qualified historians assigned to other local units, regardless of command, as
trainers. Any arrangement using resources outside the unit’s chain of command requires
coordination with all involved commanders and MAJCOM/ HOs.
2.5.4. Certifier Qualifications. Certifiers must be at least a SSgt with a 7-skill level or the civilian
equivalent. Certifiers must be someone other than the trainer, qualified to perform the task they
are certifying, recommended by the supervisor, and appointed in writing by the unit commander.
Certifiers will evaluate all core and critical tasks (non-core and non-critical tasks do not require
review by the certifier). Appointed certifiers must attend the formal AF training course (or have
                                                                                               Page 21




attended previous FTD OJT Trainer’s/Supervisor’s Courses). Source: HQ AFMPC/DPPAPEO
Msg, Year of Training Mid-Course Review Implementation Instructions, 081319Z Aug 95.
2.5.4.1. Exception to the certifier requirements. In “one-deep shops,” any person, regardless of
rank, who has completed certifier’s training can certify regardless of AFSC. Source: HQ
AFMPC/DPPAPEO Msg, Year of Training Mid-Course Review Implementation Instructions,
081319Z Aug 95. Again, the AFCFM supports untraditional training arrangements in these
situations. Commanders are encouraged to use qualified historians assigned to other units,
regardless of command, as trainers. Historians at the MAJCOM History Office should be
appointed as certifiers. Trainer/ certifier appointments should be arranged in coordination with all
involved commanders and MAJCOM/ HOs. For program standardization, appoint trainers and
certifiers as outlined below:
2.5.4.2. Units with historians in 5-level upgrade training will request a MAJCOM/HO staff visit
approximately nine months after the historian enters 5-level upgrade training. An experienced
historian, appointed as the trainer by the immediate supervisor in coordination with
MAJCOM/HO, will conduct a 3- to 5-day visit to provide on-scene guidance, instruction, and
quality assurance for completion of tasks listed in the 3H0XX Career Field Education and
Training Plan.
2.5.4.3. Upon completion of at least one periodic history rated satisfactory or better, and the
above visit, MAJCOM/HO will recommend upgrade. The historian’s supervisor will send the
individual’s training records to MAJCOM/HO for final review and certification by the certifier
appointed within the MAJCOM/HO.
2.6. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion
System (WAPS). Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields develop
Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron. The tests
sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members as
most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references
listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military
Personnel Testing System, paragraph 1.17. WAPS is not applicable to personnel in the Air
National Guard or Air Force Reserve.


3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
USAF Historian Development School, CPD/HO, 525 Chennault Circle, Maxwell AFB AL 36112-
6429. Reference specific STS paragraphs.
3.1. Report inadequacies of and suggest corrections to this STS through MAJCOM/HO to USAF
Historian Development School (at above address). Reference specific STS paragraphs.
3.2. The USAF Historian Development School will evaluate the suggestion and prepare a
recommendation. After coordination with MAJCOM function managers, they will submit the
recommendation along with MAJCOM comments to AFCFM for approval.
                                                                                                                                                  Page 22




This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                                              Initials (Written )           SSAN


                                                    Printed Name Of Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                          N/I


N/I                                                                          N/I


N/I                                                                          N/I


N/I                                                                          N/I


N/I                                                                          N/I


N/I                                                                          N/I


N/I                                                                          N/I


N/I                                                                          N/I




                                                QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS

                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                                       Scale    Definition: The individual
                                       Value
                                                Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                         1      Limited)
                                                Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
          Task                           2
                                                Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
      Performance                        3
                                                Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (Highly
         Levels                          4      Proficient)
                                                Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
                                         a
                                                Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
        *Task                            b
                                                Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
      Knowledge                          c      (Operating Principles)
                                                Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
          Levels                         d
                                                Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
                                         A
                                                Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
      **Subject                          B
                                                Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
      Knowledge                          C
                                                Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
        Levels                           D
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a subject
common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training required but not given due to limitations in resources.

 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during war time.
                                                                                                                                  Page 23




                                                     2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                    Indicate Training/Information
                                                     Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                     time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                     Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                               Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                               Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                    Course        CDC        Course

1. USAF HISTORY AND THE
HISTORIAN CAREER FIELD
TR: AFDD 1, AFMAN 36-2108, AFPD 84-1,
AFI 84-101, AFI 84-102, AFI 84-103, 84-
105, AFI 36-2863, AFMD 30, AFMD 53
    a. USAF History and Museum Program
        (1) Purpose                                                                                                   A           B             -
        (2) Origins                                                                                                   A           B             -
        (3) Career field structure and                                                                                A           B             -
        responsibilities
        (4) Uses                                                                                                      A           B             -
    b. Air power doctrine                                                                                             A            -           B
    c. Awards program                                                                                                 A            -            -
    d. Promote History Program                        5                                                               A           B             -
    e. Brief commander and staff on history           5                                                               A            -            -
    program
2. REFERENCE SERVICES AND
HISTORICAL REPOSITORIES
TR: AFPD 84-1, AFI 84-101, 84-105, AFPD
38-4, AFI 38-101, AFI 35-205, AFI 37-132,
AFI 37-138, AFMAN 37-123, AFMAN 37-
139, AF SUP 1 to DOD 5400.7-R, DOD
5200.1-R, AFPD 31-4, and AFI 31-401
    a. Historical Queries
        (1) Validate and prioritize query                                                                             A            -          2b
        (2) Verify requester’s security clearance,    5                                                               A            -            -
        non-disclosure agreement, and need-to-
        know
        (3) Research query and provide                5                                                               A            -          2b
        response
                                                                                                                                 Page 24




                                                    2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                    time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                    Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                              Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                   Course        CDC        Course

            (a) Coordinate replies to civilian,      5                                                               A            -            -
            congressional, GAO, foreign, and
            freedom of information inquiries with
            appropriate agencies according to
            specific requirements
        (4) Maintain historical services/queries     5                                                               A           B             -
           log
    b. Organizational emblems
        (1) Know Air Force heraldry terms and                                                                        A           B             -
        rules
        (2) Maintain unit emblems and                5                                                               A           B             -
        significance statements
        (3) Provide guidelines for new/revised                                                                       A           B             -
        emblems
        (4) Process requests for new/revised                                                                         A           B             -
        emblems: review, endorse, and forward
        to MAJCOM
    c. Lineage and Honors
        (1) Know unit lineage and honors                                                                             A           B             -
        terminology and rules
        (2) Know types of Air Force                                                                                  A           B             -
        organizations
        (3) Maintain unit lineage and honors         5                                                               A           B             -
        data
    d. IRIS
        (1) Obtain user ID and password                                                                              A            -            -
        (2) Conduct research                                                                                          -           -          3c
    e. Historical Repository
        (1) Determine appropriate collection                                                                         A           B             -
        (2) Organize and maintain collection         5                                                               A           B             -
    f. Unit activations, inactivations, and
    transfers
                                                                                                                                 Page 25




                                                    2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                    time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                    Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                              Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                   Course        CDC        Course

        (1) Coordinate History annex and                                                                              -          B             -
        timeline with MAJCOM/HO
        (2) Coordinate disposition of history                                                                         -          B             -
        box with MAJCOM/HO
    g. Assist in research for historical exhibits                                                                    A           B             -
    and displays
3. CONTINGENCY READINESS,
PLANNING, AND OPERATIONS
TR: AFPD 84-1, AFI 84-101, AFI 84-102,
84-105, AFMAN 10-401, AFI 10-403, DoD
5200.1-R, AFPD 31-4, AFI 31-401
    a. Know basic concepts of war planning                                                                           A            -           B
    b. Know use of UTCs to identify                  5                                                               A           B             -
    deployment requirements
    c. Know historian’s role in contingency          5                                                               A           B             -
    operations
    d. Maintain history annexes                      5                                                               A           B           2b
    e. Establish and maintain historian mobility     5                                                               A           B             -
    kit
    f. Accomplish ancillary/mobility training        5                                                               A            -            -
    g. Brief commander on historian’s                5                                                               A           B             -
    contingency role
    h. Establish points of contact
        (1) Home station                             5                                                               A           B             -
        (2) Deployed location                        5                                                               A           B             -
    i. Graphic, electronic, and written
    documentation
        (1) Collect                                  5                                                               A           B             -
        (2) Analyze and orga nize                    5                                                               A           B             -
        (3) Preserve and safeguard                   5                                                               A           B             -
        (4) Attend meetings                          5                                                               A           B             -
                                                                                                                                 Page 26




                                                    2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                    time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                    Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                              Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                   Course        CDC        Course

    j. Conduct and record interviews                 5                                                               A           B             -
    k. Contingency Historical Reports
        (1) Prepare                                  5                                                              2b           B             -
        (2) Verify and derive security markings      5                                                              2b           B             -
        (3) Distribute                               5                                                               A           B             -
    l. Prepare and transmit History Status           5                                                               A           B             -
    Reports
    m. Prepare and transmit History After-           5                                                               A           B             -
    Action Report
4. PREPARE PERIODIC HISTORIES
TR: AFPD 84-1, AFI 84-101, AFI 84-105,
AFI 38-101, AFMAN 37-126, AFH 37-137,
DoD 5200.1-R, AFPD 31-4, AFI 31-401, AFI
37-132, AFI 51-503, AFI 90-201, AFI 91-
204, AF SUP 1 to DOD 5400.7-R
    a. Know unit mission and organization            5                                                               A           B             -
    b. Conduct continuous, systematic mission-
    related research
        (1) Identify sources of                      5                                                               A           B             -
        information/points of contact
        (2) Review key files
            (a) Electronic mail                      5                                                               A           B             -
            (b) LAN connection                       5                                                              1b           B             -
            (c) SIPRNET                                                                                              A            -            -
            (d) Printed matter                       5                                                               A           B             -
        (3) Arrange for automatic distribution of                                                                    A           B             -
        documents
        (4) Attend meetings to gather pertinent      5                                                               A           B             -
        information
        (5) Collect graphics                                                                                         A           B             -
    c Interviews
                                                                                                                               Page 27




                                                  2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                  Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                  time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                  Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                            Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                 Course        CDC        Course

        (1) Prepare questions                      5                                                               A           B           3c
        (2) Arrange appointment                    5                                                               A           B           3c
        (3) Conduct and record                     5                                                               A           B           3c
        (4) Transcribe                             5                                                               A           B           3c
        (5) Verify information                                                                                     A           B           3c
        (6) Authenticate                           5                                                               A           B           3c
    d. Narrative
        (1) Analyze and organize collected data    5                                                              2b           B             -
        (2) Select topics                          5                                                              2b           B             -
        (3) Prepare outline                        5                                                              2b           B             -
        (4) Compose text                           5                                                              2b           B             -
        (5) Prepare graphics to enhance            5                                                              2b           B             -
        narrative
        (6) Document sources with footnotes or     5                                                              2b           B             -
        endnotes
        (7) Proofread text                         5                                                              2b           B             -
        (8) Coordinate with staff for accuracy,    5                                                              2b           B             -
        completeness, and security
    e. Prepare front and back matter
        (1) Title page                             5                                                              2b           B             -
        (2) Security and Administrative Control    5                                                              2b           B             -
        Page
        (3) Frontispiece                                                                                           A           B             -
        (4) Foreword                                                                                               A           B             -
        (5) Preface                                                                                                A           B             -
        (6) Table of Contents                      5                                                              2b           B             -
        (7) List of Illustrations                  5                                                              2b           B             -
        (8) Chronology                             5                                                              2b           B             -
        (9) Executive Summary                                                                                      A           B             -
                                                                                                                               Page 28




                                                  2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                  Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                  time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                  Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                            Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                 Course        CDC        Course

        (10) Appendices                            5                                                              2b           B             -
        (11) Glossary                              5                                                               A           B             -
        (12) Gazetteer                                                                                             A           B             -
        (13) Index                                                                                                 A           B             -
        (14) List of Supporting Documents          5                                                              1a           B             -
        (15) Distribution List                     5                                                              2b           B             -
        (16) Front and back cover                  5                                                               A           B             -
    f. Supporting document volumes
        (1) Prepare Title Page                     5                                                               A           B             -
        (2) Prepare Security and Administrative    5                                                               A           B             -
        Control Page
        (3) Prepare List of Supporting             5                                                               A           B             -
        Documents by volume
        (4) Prepare covers                         5                                                               A           B             -
        (5) Number documents                       5                                                               A           B             -
    g. Finalize
        (1) Edit narrative volume                  5                                                              2b           B             -
        (2) Verify security and administrative     5                                                              2b           B             -
        markings
        (3) Submit for review and signature        5                                                               A           B             -
        (4) Reproduce all volumes                  5                                                               A            -            -
        (5) Assemble/bind
            (a) Narrative                          5                                                               A           B             -
            (b) Supporting documents               5                                                               A           B             -
        (6) Distribute                             5                                                               A            -            -
    h. Know history evaluation process                                                                             A            -            -
                                                                                                                               Page 29




                                                  2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                  Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                  time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                  Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                            Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                 Course        CDC        Course

5. STUDIES AND OTHER HISTORICAL
PRODUCTS
TR: AFPD 84-1, AFI 84-101, AFI 84-105,
AFI 38-101, AFMAN 37-126, AFH 37-137,
DoD 5200.1-R, AFPD 31-4, AFI 31-401, AFI
37-132, AFI 51-503, AFI 90-201, AFI 91-
204, AF SUP 1 to DOD 5400.7-R
    a. Studies
        (1) Identify topic                         7                                                               A           B            C
        (2) Coordinate topic and format with       7                                                               A           B             -
        MAJCOM/HO
        (3) Prepare outline                                                                                        A           B           3c
        (4) Conduct research                       7                                                               A           B           3c
        (5) Prepare body
            (a) Narrative                                                                                          A           B           3c
            (b) Chronologies                                                                                       A           B             -
            (c) Statistical analyses                                                                               A           B             -
            (d) Annotated photo collection                                                                         A           B             -
            (e) Annotated bibliography/document                                                                    A           B             -
            collection
        (6) Prepare front/back matter                                                                              A           B             -
        (7) Coordinate product with unit staff     7                                                               A           B            C
        (8) Obtain approval for external
        distribution
            (a) MAJCOM/HO                          7                                                               A           B             -
            (b) Public Affairs                     7                                                               A           B             -
    b. Heritage Pamphlet
        (1) Compile data to support narrative
            (a) Key lineage and honors data        5                                                               A           B             -
            (b) Mission data                       5                                                               A           B             -
                                                                                                                               Page 30




                                                  2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                 Indicate Training/Information
                                                  Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                  time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                  Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                            Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                            Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                 Course        CDC        Course

            (c) Base history                                                                                       A           B             -
        (2) Prepare narrative                      5                                                               A           B             -
        (3) Obtain approval for external
        distribution
            (a) MAJCOM/HO                                                                                          A           B             -
            (b) Public Affairs                     5                                                               A           B             -
    c. Develop historical presentations                                                                            A           B           3c
6. SECURITY AND ADMINISTRATIVE
CONTROL PROGRAM
TR: DoD 5200.1-R, AF Sup 1 to DoD
5400.7-R, AFPD 31-4, AFI 31-401, AFI 90-
201, AFPD 14-3
    a. Establish office guidelines for security    5                                                               A           B             -
    programs
    b. Know security forms
        (1) AFTO Form 36, Maintenance              5                                                               A           B             -
        Record for Security Type Equipment
        (2) AF Form 310, Document Receipt          5                                                               A           B             -
        and Destruction Certificate
        (3) SF Form 700, Security Container        5                                                               A           B             -
        Information
        (4) SF Form 701, Activity Security         5                                                               A           B             -
        Checklist
        (5) SF Form 702, Security Container        5                                                               A           B             -
        Check Sheet
        (6) AF Form 144 Top Secret Access          5                                                               A           B             -
        Record and Cover Sheet
        (7) SF Form 703 Top Secret, SF Form        5                                                               A           B             -
        704 Secret, and SF Form 705
        Confidential Cover Sheets
        (8) SF Form 707 Secret and SF Form         5                                                               A           B             -
        708 Confidential ADP Media
        Classification Labels
                                                                                                                                   Page 31




                                                      2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                     Indicate Training/Information
                                                      Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                      time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                      Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                                Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                     Course        CDC        Course

        (9) SF Form 711, ADP Data                      5                                                               A           B             -
        Description Label
    c. Safeguard classified/sensitive material
        (1) Receive classified/sensitive material      5                                                               A           B             -
        (2) Prepare classified/sensitive
        documents
            (a) Determine the highest                  5                                                              2b         B               -
            classification of information used
            (b) Apply proper                           5                                                              2b           B             -
            security/administrative markings
            (c) Cite classified/sensitive materials    5                                                              2b           B             -
            in notes and supporting document list
        (3) Maintain classified/sensitive material
            (a) Store classified material in           5                                                              2b           B           3c
            approved containers or designated
            areas
            (b) Review repository material for         5                                                               A             -           -
            downgrade or declassification
            (c) Destroy classified/sensitive           5                                                              2b           B             -
            information when no longer needed
    d. Prepare classified materials for mailing
        (1) Inner container
            (a) Place completed AF Form 310 in         5                                                              2b           B             -
            container
            (b) Seal container                         5                                                              2b           B             -
            (c) Apply appropriate classification       5                                                              2b           B             -
            markings, addresses, and control
            number
        (2) Outer container
            (a) Wrap and seal                          5                                                              2b           B             -
            (b) Apply addresses and control            5                                                              2b           B             -
            number
                                                                                                                                 Page 32




                                                    2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                   Indicate Training/Information
                                                    Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                    time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                    Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                              Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                              Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                   Course        CDC        Course

            (c) Attach AF Form 12                    5                                                              2b           B             -
    e. Obtain certification to process classified    5                                                               A            -            -
    or sensitive information on computer
    systems
    f. Report security incidents or violations                                                                       A            -            -
7. SUPERVISION
TR: AFPD 84-1, AFI 84-101, AFI 36-2863,
AFI 36-2103, AFI 36-2403, AFH 37-137,
AFPD 36-22, AFI 36-2201
    a. Orient newly assigned historians to key                                                                        -           -            -
    unit personnel
    b. Plan, conduct, and supervise On -the-Job
    Training (OJT) Program
        (1) Develop and maintain training                                                                             -           -            -
        records
        (2) Establish study reference files                                                                           -           -            -
        (3) Procure training aids, space, and                                                                         -           -            -
        equipment
        (4) Determine OJT requirements                                                                                -           -            -
        (5) Assign OJT trainer                                                                                        -           -            -
    c. Plan and schedule work assignments                                                                             -           -            -
    d. Evaluate individual duty performance
        (1) Establish performance standards                                                                           -           -            -
        (2) Counsel personnel                                                                                         -           -            -
        (3) Correct substandard performance                                                                           -           -            -
    e. Conduct staff assistance visits                                                                                            -           A
    f. Critique history products                                                                                      -           -          2b
    g. Evaluate history products for awards                                                                           -           -            -
    h. Retrainee applicants
        (1) Conduct interview                                                                                         -          B             -
                                                                                                                                Page 33




                                                   2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                   Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                   time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                   Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                             Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                  Course        CDC        Course

        (2) Review records                                                                                           -          B             -
        (3) Evaluate writing sample                                                                                  -          B             -
        (4) Coordinate with MAJCOM/HO                                                                                -          B             -
        (5) Make recommendation                                                                                      -          B             -
8. OFFICE MANAGEMENT AND
ADMINISTRATION
TR: AFMAN 37-139, AFI 37-122, AFMAN
37-123, AFI 37-138, AFMAN 37-126, AFH
33-337, AFI 84-101
    a. Computer and software literacy
        (1) Establish requirements for effective                                                                    A            -            -
        office operation
        (2) Operate computer equipment and          5                                                              2b            -          3c
        associated peripherals
        (3) Use software applications
            (a) Word processing                     5                                                              2b            -          3c
            (b) Database                                                                                            A            -            -
            (c) Spreadsheet                                                                                         A            -            -
            (d) Presentation graphics                                                                               A            -          3c
            (e) E-mail                              5                                                               A            -            -
            (f) Forms Program                                                                                       A            -            -
            (g) Internet Browser                                                                                    A            -            -
    b. Files management
        (1) Maintain administrative files           5                                                               A            -            -
        (2) Develop/maintain an approved file       5                                                               A            -            -
        plan
        (3) Purge administrative files as needed                                                                    A            -            -
        (4) Establish and maintain office plans,                                                                     -          B             -
        operations orders, instructions, and
        annexes
                                                                                                                                Page 34




                                                   2.      3. Certification For OJT                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                                  Indicate Training/Information
                                                   Core/                                                          Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       War-       A         B         C          D           E           A           B           C
                                                   time                                                            3 Skill     5 Skill     7 Skill
                                                   Tasks                                                           Level       Level       Level
                                                             Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                             Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
                                                                                                                  Course        CDC        Course

    c. Access and use directive and regulatory      5                                                               A            -            -
    publications
    d. Prepare correspondence
        (1) Compose letters, messages, and          5                                                               A            -            -
        memorandums for record
        (2) Compose staff reports, such as          5                                                              1a            -            -
        background papers, point papers, talking
        papers, or staff summary sheets
    e. Identify budget requirements                                                                                 A            -            -
    f. Identify and maintain equipment and                                                                          A            -            -
    supplies
    g. Historical Activity Report
        (1) Submit to HHQ                           5                                                               A           B             -
        (2) Brief commander on program status       5                                                               A            -            -
    h. Apply time management principles
        (1) Office management                                                                                       A            -          2b
        (2) Periodic history                        5                                                              1a            -            -
        (3) History services                                                                                        A            -          2b
        (4) Additional duties                                                                                       A            -            -
                                                                                             Page 35




Section B - Course Objective List
4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject knowledge
which is measured using a written test, PC indicates required task performance which is measured
with a performance progress check, and PC/W indicates separate measurement of both
knowledge and performance elements using written test and performance progress check.

5. Standard. The standard is 70% on multiple choice examinations. The standard is 65% on
writing practicums. Standards for performance measurement are indicated in the objective and
delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during
the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until
satisfactory performance is attained.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which
means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of
the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step by step procedures for doing
the task.

7. Course Objectives. These objectives are listed in the sequence taught by Block of
Instruction.

7.1. Initial Skills Course:

7.1.1. Block I.        THE PERIODIC HISTORY

1.      Know the scope of the historian’s career field and purposes of the history office and
origins of the history program, how the career field is structured and responsibilities of each
within that organization, and uses of the USAF History and Museum Program. STS: 1a(all), 1d,
1e, 8c Meas: W

2.       Know the purpose of the periodic history, the standards for producing an Outst anding,
Excellent, Satisfactory, Marginal, and Unsatisfactory periodic history, and the awards which can
be garnered within the Air Force History and Museum Program. STS: 1c, 4a, 4b(all), 4c(all),
4d(all), 4e(all), 4f(all), 4g(all), 4h Meas: W

3a.      Comprehend the components which make up the periodic history. STS: 4d(all), 4e(all),
4f(all), 4g(all ) Meas: W

3b.    Apply skills to build an appendix. STS: 4e(10 ) Meas: PC

4a.    Comprehend the purpose and format of all three types of notes (footnotes, endnotes, and
explanatory notes) in the periodic history. STS: 4d(6 ) Meas: W

4b.    Apply skills to build notes for various types of documents. STS: 4d(6 ) Meas: PC

7.1.2. Block II.       SECURITY
                                                                                              Page 36




1.     Know how to protect classified material. STS: 2a(2), 6a, 6b(all), 6c(1), 6c(3)(a),
6c(3)(c), 6e, 6f Meas: W

2a.     Comprehend security markings used to identify classified information. STS: 4g(2),
6c(2)(all) Meas: W

2b.    Apply skills to mark classified information properly. STS: 4g(2), 6c(2)(all ) Meas: PC

3.     Know classification history and general declassification terms and principles. STS:
6c(3)(b) Meas: W

7.1.3. Block III.      CONTINGENCY AND THE HISTORIAN

1.     Know the basic concepts of the war planning process. STS: 3a, 3b, 3d Meas: W

2.      Know the current taskings under the Expeditionary Aerospace Force (EAF) and their
steady state requirements and the duties of Air Force historians at every level. STS: 3c, 3i(all),
3j, 3k(all ) Meas: W

3a.     Comprehend how to prepare contingency historical r eports, history status reports, and
history operations after-action reports. STS: 3k(all), 3l, 3m Meas: W

3b.    Apply skills to prepare contingency historical reports. STS: 2b, 3k(1), 3k(2 ) Meas W

3c.    Apply procedures to utilize meals-ready-to-eat (MRE). STS: 3c Meas: PC

4.   Know the similarities and differences of historical activities between Operation DESERT
STORM and Operation ALLIED FORCE. STS: 3c Meas: W

5.      Know readiness training, clothing, support kit, and exercise requirements as we ll as tricks
of the trade to getting to the deployment, while at the deployment, and upon return from the
deployment. STS: 3e, 3f, 3g, 3h(all ) Meas: W

6.       Comprehend the planning process, the taskings and duties of deployed historians, and the
training and preparations necessary to successfully go to war. STS: 3a, 3b, 3c, 3d, 3e, 3f, 3g,
3h(all), 3i(all), 3j Meas: W

7.1.4. Block IV.       THE WING HISTORY PROGRAM

1a.    Know the types of documents that should be held in the unit repository and how best to
maintain the documents. STS: 2e(all ) Meas: W

1b.    Know the basic principles of office administration. STS: 8b(all), 8d(all), 8e, 8f Meas: W

1c.   Know computer hardware and software requirements for the history office. STS: 8a(all )
Meas: PC
                                                                                              Page 37




2.     Know how to budget effort and time in meeting schedules and the methods to ensure a
balanced treatment of wing activities. STS: 8h(all ) Meas: PC

3.     Know the different types of historical publications, how to answer historical queries, and
how to do an historical activity report. STS: 2a(all), 5a(all), 8g(all ) Meas: W

4.     Know the historian’s role in the museum system. STS: 2g Meas: W

5.     Know the nature of Air Force Lineage and Honors and what is required to complete the
Lineage and Honors data for the unit history. STS: 2c(all ) Meas: W

6.     Know the nature and functions of the Air Force Heraldry Program. STS: 2b(all ) Meas:
W

7a.     Know how to compile data for and prepare narrative of heritage pamphlet and where to
distribute it. STS: 5b(all ) Meas: W

7b.    Know how to develop and present heritage briefings. STS: 5c Meas: W

8.     Know the importance of the Air Force historian and his/her role in formulating air power
doctrine through recording air power history. STS: 1b Meas: W

7.1.5. Block V.        HISTORICAL METHODS AND MATERIALS

1a.    Know the concepts of mission and organization as they apply to the United States Air
Force. STS: 4a Meas: W

1b.    Comprehend how an Air Force unit’s mission and organization influence the structure and
content of the unit’s history. STS: 4a Meas: W

2.      Know the forces and factors that shape the content and research behind the periodic
history. STS: 4d(all ) Meas: W

3a.   Comprehend how to determine what to look for when conducting historical researc h.
STS: 4b(all) Meas: W

3b.    Comprehend how to identify and evaluate potential sources of historical research. STS:
4b(2)(a), 4b(2)(c), 4b(2)(d), 4b(3), 4b(4), 4b(5) Meas: W

3c.    Apply skills to research local intranets and the internet. STS: 4b(2)(b ) Meas: PC

4a.   Know how to explore possible ways to organize a periodic history. STS: 4d(2), 4d(3)
Meas: W
                                                                                                Page 38




4b.     Comprehend how to examine methods of presenting historical information in your
narrative and appendices. STS: 4d(4), 4d(5 ) Meas: W

5.    Know how to prepare, arrange, conduct, transcribe, verify, and authenticate interviews.
STS: 4c(all) Meas: W

7.1.6. Block VI.       HISTORICAL COMPOSITION, RESEARCH, AND WRITING
                       PRINCIPLES

1a.      Comprehend concepts of historical composition, research, and writing principles. STS:
4d(all), 4g(all ) Meas: PC

1b.     Apply the principles for selecting information and organizing it to write a sound historical
report. STS: 4a, 4b(1), 4d(all), 4g(all ) Meas: PC

1c.     Apply historical composition, research, and writing for a paper to include: outlining, past
tense/active voice, sentence structure, paragraph structure, and editing. STS: 4d(all), 4g(all),
8a(2), 8a(3)(a) Meas: PC

2a.     Apply techniques to research and prepare an outline from a packet of doc uments. STS:
4d(all) Meas: PC

2b.    Apply information from a packet of documents to write and edit a narrative with
footnotes. STS: 4d(all), 4g(all), 8a(2), 8a(3)(a) Meas: PC

7.1.7. Block VII.      HISTORICAL RESEARCH AND WRITING PROJECT

1a.      Comprehend the nature of the writing practicum. STS: 4c(3), 4d(all), 4e(all), 4g(all),
6b(all), 6c(all), 6d(all), 8a(2), 8a(3), 8h(2 ) Meas: PC

1b.     Apply the data to write and edit a historical report in proper format, with document
selection and outline. STS: 4d(all), 4e(all), 4g(all), 8a(2), 8a(3)(a), 8c, 8d(2), 8h(2 ) Meas: PC

1c.    Apply proper security procedures, including handling classified, applying security
markings, and wrapping a classified package. STS: 6c(2)(all), 6c(3)(a), 6c(3)(c), 6d(all ) Meas:
PC

2.      Know how to use the various services provided by AFHRA, particularly how to access the
Inferential Retrieval Indexing System (IRIS). STS: 2d(1 ) Meas: PC
                                                                                               Page 39




7.2. Advanced Skills Course:

7.2.1. Block I.        HISTORICAL PUBLICATION

1a.     Comprehend the principles and methods of conducting research and writing narratives for
historical studies. STS: 2d(2), 5a(1), 5a(3), 5a(4), 5a(5)(a), 5a(7 ) Meas: PC

1b.     Apply the principles and methods of conducting research and writing narratives for
historical studies. STS: 2d(2), 5a(3), 5a(4), 5a(5)(a), 6c(3)(a), 8a(2), 8a(3)(a) Meas: PC

7.2.2. Block II.       HISTORICAL INTERVIEW

1a.     Comprehend principles and methods of preparing, arranging, conducting and recording,
transcribing, verifying, and authenticating an interview. STS: 4c(all ) Meas: PC

1b.     Apply principles and methods of preparing, arranging, conducting and recording,
transcribing, verifying, and authenticating an interview. STS: 4c(all), 8a(2), 8a(3)(a ) Meas: PC

7.2.3. Block III.      ORAL PRESENTATION

1a.    Comprehend the principles and methods of development and delivery of an historical
presentation. STS: 5c, 8a(3)(d) Meas: B

1b.    Apply the principles and methods of development and delivery of an historical
presentation. STS: 5c, 8a(2), 8a(3)(d) Meas: PC

7.2.4. Block IV.       PERIODIC HISTORY EVALUATION AND PROGRAM
                       MANAGEMENT

1a.   Comprehend the principles and methods of evaluating a periodic history. STS: 7e, 7f
Meas: PC

1b.    Apply the principles and methods of evaluating a periodic history. STS: 7f, 8a(2),
8a(3)(a) Meas: PC

2.    Apply time management principles in the areas of office management and history services.
STS: 8h(1), 8h(3) Meas: PC

3.     Apply principles and methods of validating, prioritizing, researching, and provid ing
responses to queries. STS: 2a(1), 2a(3), 8a(2), 8a(3)(a) Meas: PC

4a.    Comprehend the importance of air power history on the development of Air Force
doctrine. STS: 1b Meas: PC

4b.    Comprehend the basic principles and methods of war planning.     STS: 3a, 3d Meas: PC
                                                                                            Page 40




4c.    Apply the basic principles and methods of preparing a history annex to a war plan. STS:
3d, 8a(2), 8a(3)(a) Meas: PC


Section C - Support Material
8. Purpose. This section of the CFETP lists any available support materials relevant across the
specialty. Support material is any training package designed to enhance the learning process at
any level of training. Some examples of support material are : qualification training packages
(QTP), computer based instruction (CBI), computer aided instruction (CAI), and correspondence
courses.

NOTE: There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.


Section D - Training Course Index
9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty and
shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field training programs.

10. Air Force Residence Courses.

COURSE NUMBER              TITLE                                    LOCATION               USER

M3ABR3H031              Historian Apprentice Course (CPD/HO)        Maxwell AFB AL         AF

M3ACR3H071              Historian Craftsman Course (CPD/HO)         Maxwell AFB AL         AF

MCADRE002               Contingency Wartime Planning Course         Maxwell AFB AL         AF
                        (CADRE)

 na                     History of Air Power Seminar (AFHSO)        Bolling AFB DC         AF

 na                     Oral History Course (AFHRA)                 Maxwell AFB AL         AF

 na                     Archive Management (AFHRA)                  Maxwell AFB AL         AF

11. Air Force Institute for Distributed Learning (AFIADL) Courses.

COURSE NUMBER             TITLE                                     LOCATION               USER

3H051M                  Historian Journeyman Co urse (CPD/HO) Maxwell AFB AL               AF

12. Exportable Courses.

COURSE NUMBER TITLE                                                 LOCATION               USER

none
                                                                                  Page 41




13. Courses Under Development/Revision.

COURSE NUMBER TITLE                                          LOCATION             USER

none


Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements

NOTE: There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.
