DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                              CFETP 2A9X3X
Headquarters US Air Force                                                   Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20030-1030                                                   1 April 2014



                              AFSC 2A9X3X

     BOMBER/SPECIAL (B/S) ELECTRONIC
     WARFARE & RADAR SURVEILLANCE
         INTEGRATED AVIONICS




       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION

                AND TRAINING PLAN
  ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
              www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.




                                           1
This Page Intentionally Blank




              2
                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
        B/S ELECTRONIC WARFARE & RADAR SURVEILLANCE INTEGRATED
                                AVIONICS
                               AFSC 2A9X3X

                                                                     Table of Contents
                                                                                                                                                                           Page

Preface ...................................................................................................................................................................... 4

Abbreviations/Terms Explained............................................................................................................................. 5

PART I
 Section A--General Information........................................................................................................................... 8
   Purpose of the CFETP
   Use of the CFETP
   Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

   Section B--Career Progression and Information ................................................................................................. 9
     Specialty Descriptions
     Career Skill Progression
         Apprentice      (3) Level
         Journeyman      (5) Level
         Craftsman       (7) Level
         Superintendent (9) Level
     Training Decisions
     Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities
     Career Field Path
     Base/Unit Education and Training Manager Checklist

   Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements .................................................................................................... 14
     Purpose
     Specialty Qualification Requirements
         Apprentice Level Training
         Journeyman Level Training
         Craftsman Level Training
         Superintendent Level Training

   Section D--Resource Constraints ......................................................................................................................... 15

   Section E--Transitional Training Guide .............................................................................................................. 16

PART II
 Section A--Specialty Training Standard ............................................................................................................... 17

   Section B--3-Level Course Training .................................................................................................................... 18

   Section C--Support Materials ............................................................................................................................... 19

   Section D--Training Course Index ....................................................................................................................... 19

   Section E--MAJCOM Unique Requirements ....................................................................................................... 21

OPR: 365 TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ USAF/A4LF (CMSgt Tony Turner)
Supersedes: CFETP 2A5X3D, 1 Apr 2004
Pages: 114

                                                                                     3
    B/S ELECTRONIC WARFARE & RADAR SURVEILLANCE INTEGRATED
                            AVIONICS
            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                           AFSC 2A9X3X

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education
and training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training
support resources, and minimum core task requirements for 2A9X3X, B/S Electronic
Warfare & Radar Surveillance Integrated Avionics specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and instills rigor in all aspects of career field training.
NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage, and
control training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section
A explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, experience,
training, and other). Section D indicates resource constraints to accomplishing this plan,
such as funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training
plans for the career field.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard
(STS) and includes duties, tasks, and technical references to support training. Air Education
and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, core task and correspondence course
requirements. Section B provides an explanation of AETC 3-Level Course Training. Section
C identifies available proficiency training support materials. Section D identifies the
Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks, technical references to support
training, Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime
course/core task, and Career Development Course (CDC) requirements. Section E identifies
MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training
required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors and trainers will
use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of this
plan.




                                                 4
                         ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training: Formal course, which provides individuals who are qualified in their
Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the
career field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS): A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task
qualifications. The tasks of AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty
position.

Bridge Course: A formal or informal course, which allows the individual to expand their
knowledge in another area of expertise.

Career Development Course (CDC): Self-study correspondence course to provide Airmen
with fundamental knowledge of their AFSC.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP): A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career
field. It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to
make career field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is
budget defensible.

Certification: A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required
standards.

Certification Official: A person authorized by appropriate commander to determine an
individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training: This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade
requirements and has an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task: Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements for everyone
within an AFSC, regardless of duty position.

Course Training Standard (CTS): A formal course document that identifies in board terms
the training members will receive in a specific course.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST): A mix of formal training (technical school) and
informal training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a
specialty.

Exportable Training: Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive
video, or other necessary means to supplement training.

Go/No Go Level: In OJT, the stage at which an individual has gained enough skill,
knowledge and experience to either be qualified to perform an identified task without
assistance, or not.

                                                5
Field Technical Training (Type 4): Special or regular on-site training conducted by a
training detachment (TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training: A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level
AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD): A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the
knowledge and skills essential for successful job performance.

Maintenance Information System (MIS): Systems and applications that support and enable
maintenance business processes. Used to document maintenance actions. Provides
maintenance supervisors with products to evaluate organizational effectiveness and to aid in
decision-making processes at all levels.

Maintenance Supply Liaison (MSL): Monitors overall maintenance and supply interface,
resolves supply support problems, and coordinates supply-related training needs.

Master Task Listing (MTL): Document maintained within the workcenter that identifies all
tasks performed in a workcenter. This includes core, critical position qualification and
wartime tasks. This document can be automated.

Master Training Plan (MTP): A comprehensive workcenter training plan that may include
MTLs QTPs, AFJQS, CFETP, task breakdowns, commercial publications and any other
document that supports training.

Mobile Training Team (MTT): Instructors, trainers, training aids and operational
equipment that formal schools send to bases or operating locations used to perform formal
training.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR): A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational analysis of tasks performed within a particular AFSC.

On-the-Job Training (OJT): Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used
to certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Position Qualification Training: Training designed to qualify an airman in a specific
position and is accomplished after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training: Additional training either in residence or exportable advanced
training courses, or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and
knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT): Actual hands-on task performance training designed to
qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and
after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge
training required to do the job.


                                                6
Resource Constraints: Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment that preclude desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS): An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know
on the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of
the overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career
Development Courses, and exportable courses.

Standard: An exact value, a physical entity, or abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom, or common consent, to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities. Standards are used to establish practices or procedures and to evaluate
results.

Supplemental Training: Formal, standardized training within an AFSC that is in addition to
required initial skills training and skill level upgrade training. It may support new/newly
assigned equipment, methods, and/or technology.

Task Certifier: See Certification Official

Training Detachment (TD): An AETC detachment that provides maintenance oriented
technical training, at an operational location, on specific systems and their aerospace ground
equipment. A TD aims to qualify personnel on new equipment or in new techniques and
procedures, maintain proficiency and increase skill and knowledge, acquaint personnel with
specific systems, and keep personnel aware of changing concepts and requirements.

Training Setting: The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school,
on-the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.)

Upgrade Training (UGT): A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and
CDCs required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW): A forum, co-chaired by the AF Career Field
Manager and Training Pipeline Manager consisting of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code
(AFSC) functional managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel
that determine career ladder training requirements.




                                               7
PART I

Section A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for the
AFCFM, MFMs, commanders, training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop,
manage, and conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. The plan
outlines the training that individuals in this AFSC should receive in order to develop and
progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification,
advanced and proficiency training. The CFETP also:

1.1. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the
training delivery method.

1.2. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired
career field training process.

2. Use of the CFETP. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to
ensure comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the
specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, field, and
exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part
II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for
obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. Identified requirements can be satisfied by OJT,
resident training, contract training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM developed
training to support this AFSC must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not
duplicate other available training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this
plan. The list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority.
Also, the AFCFM will initiate an annual review of this document to ensure currency and
accuracy. MFMs and AETC training personnel will identify and coordinate career field
training requirements.




                                                8
Section B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Specialty Shreds:
Suffix Portion of AFSC to Which Related
A........ E-3 Radar Surveillance
B ........ E-3 Computer/Electronic Warfare systems
C ........ E-8
D........ RC-135/AFISRA and Carry-on EW Systems
E ........ B-1
F ........ B-2
G........ B-52
H........ EC-130 Compass Call
J ......... VC-25

*Shreds drop at CAFSC 7-level

**Avionics maintainers for the VC-25 may be directly hired from all heavy avionics AFSCs
(2A2XX, 2A8XX and 2A9XX). There is no 3-level pipeline for this aircraft shred. When
hired into the position their DAFSC will become the 2A9X2B shred. Upon release from VC-
25 duty they can stay in the E-4 community or revert back to their original PAFSC.

4.2. Specialty Summary. Analyzes malfunctions, inspects, removes, maintains, and
installs integrated avionics systems. Performs and supervises avionics maintenance and
general aircraft servicing and handling. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 119800.

4.2.1. Duties and Responsibilities.

4.2.1.1. B/S Electronic Warfare & Radar Surveillance Integrated Avionics Apprentice
and Journeyman. Operates and maintains electronic warfare, radar surveillance and
computer systems on E-3, E-8, VC-25, RC-135, B-1, B-2, and B-52, EC-130 Compass Call
aircraft and operates and maintains Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
Agency Systems as well as carry-on electronic warfare systems. Analyzes equipment
operating characteristics to isolate malfunctions in avionics systems, radar, integrated test
systems built-in-test (BIT), multiplexed data bus systems, recording systems, video display
systems, mission computer systems, electronic warfare (EW) systems, sensors,
communication, airborne warning and control systems (AWACS), networking systems,
surveillance radar, joint surveillance target attack radar systems (JSTARS), and interrogator
systems. Removes, installs, checks, and repairs avionics/ computer systems and line
replaceable units (LRU). Diagnoses malfunctions using technical orders, schematics, wiring
diagrams, integrated test systems and other test equipment. Removes, replaces, and repairs
faulty system wiring, electrical connectors, antennas, transmission lines, and multiconductor
cables. Modifies avionics systems according to technical publications. Updates operational
logs, inspection records, aircraft forms, and automated maintenance systems. Performs and
supervises alignment, calibration, and boresight of avionics systems. Uploads ground
maintenance and operational software. Performs off-equipment maintenance on selected
avionics LRUs and maintains peculiar support equipment (SE). Inspects and evaluates
aircraft maintenance activities. Inspects and verifies operational status and configuration of
                                              9
avionics systems and software. Records and ensures validity of entries into maintenance data
collection and inspection systems. Resolves and assists units in solving maintenance and
supply problems. Interprets and recommends corrective action to inspection findings. Plans,
organizes and directs aircraft maintenance activities. Establishes methods and performance
standards. Analyzes reports and maintenance plans. Directs operation and modification of
standard operating procedures. Establishes priorities. Evaluates activities for compliance with
directives. Supervises and assists in aircraft ground servicing, and launch/recovery
operations. Reviews maintenance data collection summaries to determine trends and
production effectiveness.

5. Career Skill Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice
to the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish
its mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop,
manage and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the
CFETP will ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their
career. Use table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path in conjunction with information below to
manage career skill progression.

5.1. Apprentice (3-level). Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will work
with a trainer to enhance their knowledge and skills. The apprentice will enter UGT using
the CDC, and QT to progress in the career field. Minimum training times will be a total of
12 months for normal UGT and 9 months for retrainees. Once task certified, a trainee may
perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for appointment as unit
trainers after completion of a formal trainer course.

5.2. Journeyman (5-level). Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and
skill in troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. Five-levels may be assigned
job positions such as quality assurance and various staff positions. After having 48 months
in the Air Force, 5-levels will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) to enhance their
Professional Military Education (PME). Five-levels will be considered for appointment as
unit trainers. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman Promotion
testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a Community College
of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7-level). A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and
management positions such as shift leader, element NCOIC, flight/section chief, and task
certifier. They are the primary trainers of those trainees working toward advancement to the
5- and 7-skill levels. They can also be assigned to work in staff positions. Craftsmen should
take courses to obtain added knowledge on management of resources and personnel.
Minimum training times for UGT to the craftsman 7-skill level will be a total of 12 months
for normal UGT and 6 months for retrainees. Continued academic education through CCAF
and higher degree programs is encouraged. In addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals
will complete the Noncommissioned Officer Academy and MSgt selects are highly
encouraged to complete the Senior NCO Academy by correspondence.

5.4. Superintendent (9-level). Before attaining the 9-skill level, individuals must be
SMSgt. A 9-skill level is expected to fill positions such as flight chief, production supervisor,
and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of budget, manpower,
                                               10
resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing education.
Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are also
recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the B/S Integrated Electronic
Warfare & Radar Surveillance Systems Career Field. The spectrum includes a strategy for
when, where, and how to meet these training requirements. The strategy must be apparent
and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to
training. Refer to paragraph 10 of this document for a complete list of specialty qualification
requirements.

7. Higher Education and Advanced Certification Opportunities. Higher education and
advanced certification is a personal choice that is encouraged for the professional
development of the entire Enlisted Force. Listed below are some current opportunities:

7.1. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in
CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training (BMT). CCAF provides the
opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate
degree program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. CCAF offers the CCAF Instructor Certification
(CIC) Program for qualified instructors who teach CCAF collegiate-level credit awarding
courses at a CCAF affiliated school. The CIC is a professional credential that recognizes the
instructor's extensive faculty development training, education and qualification required to
teach a CCAF course, and formally acknowledges the instructor's practical teaching
experience. Qualified officer, enlisted, civilian and other service instructors are eligible for
this certification. The CIC Program replaced the CCAF Occupational Instructor Certification
(OIC) Program, which officially closed on 1 January 2011.

7.1.2. Professional Manager Certification (PMC) Program. CCAF offers the PMC for
qualified senior Air Force enlisted personnel who have demonstrated an advanced level of
professional accomplishment. The purpose of the certification is to recognize the
individual’s outstanding education and training required to lead and manage Air Force
personnel and critical national defense assets. The certification also formally acknowledges
the individuals management qualifications and experience. Qualified Air Force enlisted
personnel are eligible for this certification. To learn more and enroll in the program, visit
CCAF’s website at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.1.3. FAA Airframe and Power Plant (A&P) Certification. CCAF offers the Air Force
A&P Certification Program for active duty, guard and reserve aircraft maintenance
technicians in specific AFSCs. The program is designed to bridge gaps between Air Force
education, training and experience and FAA eligibility requirements per Title 14, Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 65.77. The program benefits the Air Force by broadening
the skill sets and professional development of our technicians, producing a more skilled and
diverse aircraft maintenance professional. The program directly supports the mission of
CCAF in that FAA certification of our aircraft maintenance technicians enhances combat
readiness, contributes to recruiting and retention and supports career transition of highly

                                               11
skilled technicians. To learn more and enroll in the program, visit CCAF’s website at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.1.4. Other Certification Programs. CCAF is actively pursuing other licensure and
certification opportunities related to specific career fields. To learn more about other
certification opportunities visit CCAF’s website at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.2. Degree Requirements: All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program.
Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:
                                                                                                               Semester Hours
Technical Education..................................................................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies .........................................................6
Physical Education ......................................................................................................4
General Education .....................................................................................................15
Program Elective .......................................................................................................15
     Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
     Studies; or General Education
Total ..........................................................................................................................64

7.2.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): Credits earned through technical
courses taken from AETC, including technical training and Field Training Detachment
(FTD) classes.

7.2.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
military education and/or civilian management courses.

7.2.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by
completion of Basic Military Training.

7.2.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria
for application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement
with the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the
CCAF General Catalog.

7.2.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable Technical
Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects
and courses, including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six
semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this
program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the
Associates of Applied Science for this specialty.

7.3. AETC Instructor. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is
encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become an AETC Instructor must possess as a
minimum an associate degree or should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special
Duty Assignment (SDA) requires an AETC instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree or
be within one year of completion (45 semester hours). A degreed faculty is necessary to
maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
                                                                12
    8. Career Field Path.

    8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2AXXX Air Force
    Specialty.

                                        Table 8.1 Enlisted Career Path
                                                                       Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                  Rank      Average         Earliest     High Year Of Tenure
                                                                Sew-On         Sew-On               (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)          Amn       6 months
                                                     A1C      16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)                Amn       6 months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.             A1C      16 months
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for           SrA        3 years       28 months            8 Years
  retrainees.
- Complete all 5-level core tasks on one MDS.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service
  or be a SSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                     Trainer                                                   Certifier
- Qualified and certified to perform the task to   - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and certified
  be trained.                                        to perform the task being certified
- Must attend formal OJT Trainer Course            - Attend formal OJT Trainer Course
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                                     positions, units and/or work centers with specialized
                                                     training standardization and certification requirements.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                 SSgt      5.1 years        3 years            15 Years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
- Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for
  retrainees.
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
  mission design aircraft.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
- Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)               TSgt     11.1 years        5 years            20 Years
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt     MSgt     16.8 years        8 years            24 Years
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)
- Must be a MSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)           SMSgt      21 years        11 years            26 Years
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
Chief Leadership Course                            CMSgt       24 years        14 years            30 Years
- CMSgt or CMSgt selectee


                                                        13
Section C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this specialty are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements
for each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for
entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The specific tasks and knowledge training
requirements are identified in the STS, Part II, Section A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements. MAF Integrated Electronic Warfare Systems
apprentice, journeyman, craftsman, and superintendent (ref. AFECD found on the AFPC
website).

10.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: interpreting and applying mechanical,
wiring, and electronic circuit diagrams; electronic, micro-processor, data bus, and mechanical
principles theory and application; theory of flight; gyros, synchros, indicators, memory
storage devices, antennas, servomechanisms, electromechanical, electro-hydraulic, and
electro-optical devices; radar, radio frequency communication, surveillance radar and
interrogator systems, pulse Doppler radar theory, dependent navigation aids, inertial and
radar navigation, electronic countermeasure transmitters and receivers; lasers,
infrared/ultraviolet receivers; optics, automatic flight controls, instruments, multiplexing, fire
control, video display, and digital computer systems working principles; subsystem tie-in
between integrated avionics systems; using and interpreting testing and measuring devices;
principles of motion and power transmission by fluid, mechanical and electrical means; and
concepts and application of maintenance directives.

10.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
physics, computers, and mathematics is desirable.

10.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.3.1. 2A933X. Completion of the applicable basic avionics systems courses is
mandatory.

10.3.2. 2A953X. Requirements for the Journeyman level require completion of the 5-level
CDC and qualification on the core tasks specified in the STS.

10.3.3. 2A973. Requirements for the Craftsman level require completion of the 7-level
CDC (2AX7X), completion of Advanced Wiring Maintenance Course J4AMP3000 A48A,
PDS ZIZ (per MMCL as it becomes available at the local FTD) and qualification on the core
tasks specified in the STS.

10.3.4. 2A590. No formal training requirements established.

10.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC
indicated:

10.4.1. 2A953X: Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A933X. Also, experience
isolating malfunctions, removing and installing LRUs, and use of test and ground SE.

                                               14
10.4.2. 2A973: Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A953X, experience performing
or supervising functions such as analyzing and isolating integrated avionics systems
malfunctions and using test equipment..

10.4.3. 2A590: Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A973 is mandatory. Also,
experience is mandatory managing or directing functions such as inspecting or maintaining
aircraft, helicopters, or avionics systems

10.5. Other.

10.5.1. Normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards.
Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment.

10.5.2. For award and retention of AFSCs 2A9X3X, requires completion of a current
National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI
31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an
interim NACLC has been granted according to AFI 31-501

10.5.3. Must maintain an Air Force Network License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2,
Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

10.6. Training Sources and Resources. The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current knowledge base,
and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements. OJT will be used to
provide training and qualification on the core tasks identified in one MDS aircraft STS.

10.7. Implementation. The 3 level is awarded upon graduation from the applicable
apprentice course. 5 and 7 Upgrade training will be completed using the core tasks and the
formal CDCs. The 9-skill level is awarded upon promotion to SMSgt.

Section D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

11. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints, which
preclude optimum and desired training from being developed or conducted, including
information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint
and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are included.
Also included in this section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target
completion dates. Resource constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated
annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training for 2A9X3A/B/C/D/H - No resource constraints identified.

13. Apprentice Level Training for 2A9X3E/F/G.

13.1. AN/AAR-47 (V2) Missile Warning System.

13.1.1. Constraints: Trainers are not available for the Apprentice course to satisfy the
requirements to reprogram and perform operational checks on the AN/AAR-47 (V2) system.
                                               15
13.1.2. Impacts: Apprentice students will not be able to reprogram nor perform hands-on
operational checks (proficiency code ‘2b’) on the AN/AAR-47 (V2) systems. Instead, they
will continue to receive training using the AN/AAR-47 (V1) until the V2 system can be
obtained. Proficiency code ‘2b/-’ will be entered in column 4A for the respective STS line
item for AN/AAR-47 (V2).

13.2. AN/AAQ-24 (V) 13 Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures System (LAIRCM).

13.2.1. Constraints: Trainers are not available for the Apprentice course to satisfy the
requirements to reprogram and perform operational checks on the AN/AAQ-24 (LAIRCM)
system.

13.2.2. Impacts: Apprentice students will not be able to reprogram nor perform hands-on
operational checks (proficiency code ‘2b’) on the LAIRCM system. Instead, they will receive
training on step-by-step procedures to reprogram and perform ops checks (proficiency code
‘b’). Proficiency code ‘2b/b’ will be entered in column 4A for the respective STS line items
for the LAIRCM system.

13.3. Resources Required: Funds to acquire new trainers or GITAs, or modify existing ones
to allow for reprogramming and performing operational checks on the AN/AAR (V2) and
LAIRCM systems.

13.4. Actions Required: A lead command must be established to champion acquisition of
training systems.

13.5. OPR and Target Completion Date: AETC/A3TM working with AF/A4LF.
Completion date is to be determined.

14. Journeyman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

15. Craftsman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

Section E – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE- There are no transitional
requirements. This area is reserved.




                                             16
PART II

Section A –SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education
and Training Command (AETC) once all training resources are funded.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, and AFI 36-2232 this STS:

2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common
tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the
3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.

2.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training
requirements. For upgrade training only those tasks designated as core requirements by the
AFCFM (by an asterisk in column 2) need to be trained and certified. MAJCOM Functional
Managers, commanders, and supervisors may designate additional critical tasks for duty
position qualification, as necessary. When designated, certify the duty position critical tasks
using normal task certification procedures. Exemptions:

2.2.1. Core tasks that are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not
required for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training)

2.2.2. For units with more than one mission design aircraft, upgrade trainees need only
complete core tasks on a single mission design. MFMs, unit commanders, and/or supervisors
may require trainees to complete core task training on additional mission design aircraft, if
desired. If some of these core tasks involve training in another unit on base, trainees must
still complete all core tasks relevant to at least one mission design aircraft. All units are
bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate core task trainees from
other units.

2.2.3. Units that use the G081 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete
Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) or Integrated Maintenance Data System
(IMDS) Computer Based Training (CBT) core tasks. Units that use CAMS/IMDS do not
need to complete G081 CBT core tasks.

2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use CAMS/IMDS/G081 to document technician
qualifications, if available. Task certification must show a certification or completed date.

2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

2.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.


                                               17
2.6. Job Qualification Standard. The STS becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for
on-the-job training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used
according to AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the
go/no-go level. "Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets
local requirements for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the
following requirements apply:

2.6.1. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201.
Use of Part II, attachments one, two, three, and at least one of attachments four through
twenty-one is required in individual training records.

2.6.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous
CFETPs are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this
CFETP STS is mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify
all past and current qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training
IAW AFI 36-2201.

2.7. STS. A guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF
Occupational Measurement Squadron, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience
in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test
development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions
are based upon study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are
in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National
Guard or Air Force Reserve.

3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality
of training AETC graduates received. A 782 TRG Customer Service Information Line
(CSIL) is available for supervisors to identify a graduate’s training concerns on
tasks/knowledge items listed in this STS. Please reference specific STS line items and
address your comments to: 782CSIL@us.af.mil or call the CSIL at DSN 736-2574 anytime.

Section B – 3-LEVEL COURSE OBJECTIVES

4. Introduction. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the
technical school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written
instruction for the student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully
complete training on each task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and
standard that states what is expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting
in which the training takes place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The behavior is the
observable portion of the objective (i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the
level of performance that is measured to ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained
(i.e. “with no more than two instructor assists”)

5. Objective Measurement. Each objective uses letter codes(s) to identify how it is
measured. All objectives using the PC code indicate a progress check is used to measure
subject or task knowledge. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to measure
the subject or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a subject

                                               18
or task knowledge progress check and a separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test.

6. Objective Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70% to 72%. Standards
for performance objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the
individual progress check checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each
student’s progress, on each task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the
progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until
satisfactory performance is attained. Students must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to
taking the written test.

7. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section A of
this CFETP for an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to
the ‘2b’ proficiency level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does
need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also
determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.

Section C – SUPPORT MATERIAL

8. There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved

Section D – TRAINING COURSE INDEX

9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the
2A9X3X Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career
field training programs. For further information on the following courses, contact the OPR
at:
         365 TRS/TRR
         609 9th Ave, Rm 135
         Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2335
         DSN 736-7908




                                             19
10. Air Force In-Resident Courses. The following courses are required for 3-level
training, and are identified per airframe. Students are required to first attend Avionics
Fundamentals, located at Keesler AFB, followed by their specific avionics training course,
located at Sheppard AFB. For further course information go to the ETCA website at:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.

AIRFRAME COURSE NUMBER COURSE TITLE
    E-3   E3AQR2A933A022A Avionic Fundamentals
 (2A933A) J3ABR2A933A022A B/S Avionics Radar Surveillance Systems Apprentice
    E-3        E3AQR2A933B022A Avionic Fundamentals
 (2A933B)      J3ABR2A933B022A B/S Avionics Integrated EW Systems Apprentice
               E3AQR2A933C024A Avionic Fundamentals
    E-8
               J3ABR2A933C024A B/S Avionics Radar Surveillance Systems Apprentice
               E3AQR2A933D018A Avionic Fundamentals
  RC-135
               J3ABR2A933D018A B/S Avionics Integrated EW Systems Apprentice
               E3AQR2A933E001A         Avionic Fundamentals
    B-1
               J3ABR2A933E001A         B/S Avionics Integrated EW Systems Apprentice
               E3AQR2A933F002A         Avionic Fundamentals
    B-2
               J3ABR2A933F002A         B/S Avionics Integrated EW Systems Apprentice
               E3AQR2A933G003A Avionic Fundamentals
   B-52
               J3ABR2A933G003A B/S Avionics Integrated EW Systems Apprentice
               E3AQR2A933H017A Avionic Fundamentals
  EC-130
               J3ABR2A933H017A B/S Avionics Integrated EW Systems Apprentice

11. AFIADL. http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

COURSE NO.           COURSE TITLE                                                USER
                     Integrated Electronic Warfare & Radar Surveillance
   CDC 2A953X                                                                          AF
                     Systems Journeyman
   CDC 2AX7X         Aerospace Maintenance Systems Craftsman                           AF

12. Exportable Courses. None.

For further information on exportable courses, contact the OPRs at:

       367 TRSS
       6058 Aspen Ave
       Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
       DSN 777-7830/8741




                                             20
Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from or are under development by, 367
TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB, Utah and 982 MXS/TSU at Sheppard AFB, Texas.

For further information contact the OPRs at:

    367 TRSS                                                 982 MXS/LGMS
    6058 Aspen Ave                                           Instructional Technology Unit
    Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805                                  912 I Ave, Ste 4
    DSN 777-7830/8741                                        Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334
                                                             DSN 736-3834

13. Field Training Detachment (FTD) Courses. For further information on FTD courses,
you can go to the ETCA website at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ or contact the OPRs at:

       373 TRS
       912 I Ave, Suite 4
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2362
       DSN 736-4745

Section E - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS. There are no mandatory MAJCOM
unique requirements for 2A9X3X.

14. (USE IF APPLICABLE) For MAJCOM unique requirements, refer to the MAJCOM
mandatory course lists:

       HQ ACC/A4Q DET 3
       6058 Aspen
       Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805
       DSN 777-5108
       CAF MCL:
       https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-TE-AC-42




BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                       JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt General, USAF
                                               DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support




                                               21
13 Attachments:
1. Proficiency Code Key (Mandatory)
2. General 2A9X3X Training Requirements (Mandatory for all excluding B-1, B-2, B-52)
3. General 2A9X3X Training Requirements (Mandatory for B-1, B-2, B-52)
4. E-3 Radar Training Requirements (Mandatory for E-3 Radar personnel)
5. E-3 Computer/EW Training Requirements (Mandatory for E-3 Computer/EW personnel)
6. E-8 Training Requirements (Mandatory for E-8 personnel)
7. RC-135 Training Requirements (Mandatory for RC-135 personnel)
8. B-1 Training Requirements (Mandatory for B-1 personnel)
9. B-2 Training Requirements (Mandatory for B-2 personnel)
10. B-52 Training Requirements (Mandatory for B-52 personnel)
11. EC-130 Training Requirements (Mandatory for EC-130 personnel)
12. Avionics Fundamental Training Requirements (Mandatory)
13. 2AX7X CDC Training Requirements (Mandatory)

Note: Use of at least one of attachments four through eleven is required.




                                             22
                                                                 Attachment 1

This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee:
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                             Initials (Written)                       SSAN (last 4 only)

                                          Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                        N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I

N/I                                                                          N/I


                                                     QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                               Proficiency Code Key
                                    Scale          Definition: The individual
                                    Value
                                                   IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how
                                      1
                                                   to do most of the task.)
           Task                                    IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest
                                      2
                                                   parts.)
       Performance                    3            IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
          Levels                                   IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or
                                      4
                                                   show others how to do the task.)
                                      a            KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. )
         *Task                        b            KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. )
       Knowledge                                   KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and
                                      c
                                                   why each step is needed.)
          Levels                      d            KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                                      A            KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
        **Subject                                  KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles
                                      B
                                                   about the subject.)
       Knowledge                                   KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the
                                      C
                                                   subject.)
          Levels                                   KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the
                                      D
                                                   subject.)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)
**A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.
- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
/ This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given/reduced due to limitations in resources. (3c/b, 2/b/b, 3c/-,
etc.)

X This mark is used alone in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.

NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency or knowledge code are trained during wartime.
                                                                                                                        Attachment 1


                                                                        23
                          E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes
                                                           2. Core Tasks                  3. Certification For OJT                       Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                                       Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                             A         B      C
                                                             A         B         A           B         C          D           E        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                       Level     Level     Level
                                                                               Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                           5 Level   7 Level                                                           Course    CDC       CDC
                                                                                Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials
Attachment 2 – E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 General Training Requirements
This general training requirements section is used to show necessary changes to the individual CFETP STS line items, for all the 2A9X3
shreds, in order to have the same level requirements across the shreds.
  NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A933XXXXX, Bomber/Special Avionics Integrated Electronic Warfare Systems Apprentice,
             will use representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific
             STS. The general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be
             taught in the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common
             sections to identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
  NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
  NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
  NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
  NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does not
             apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General Attachment is
             waived.
  NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
             736-7908
 2 CFETP 2A9X3A/B/C/D/H – ELECTRONIC
     WARFARE AND RADAR
     SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS
 2.1 CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
       (COMMON)
 2.1.1 Progression in Career Ladder 2A9X3C                                                                                               -        -          -
        TR: AFI 36-2108 / AFVA 39-1
 2.1.2 Duties of 3-, 5-, and 7-Level Personnel                                                                                          -         A          -
 2.1.3 Concepts/Philosophy of Electronic                                                                                                A         -          -
         Warfare
 2.2 SECURITY (COMMON)
 2.2.1 Information Security
        TR: AFI-31-401 / AFI 31-501 /
        AFPD 31- 4 / AFPD 31-5
 2.2.1.1 Mark Classified Information                                                                                                     -        -          -
 2.2.1.2 Prevention of Security Violations                                                                                               -        -          -
 2.2.1.3 Access to Classified Information                                                                                                -        -          -
 2.2.1.4 Use Security Classification Guide                                                                                               a        B          -
 2.2.2 Physical Security
        TR: DODR 5200.1R
 2.2.2.1 Control of Restricted Areas                                                                                                    -         -          -
 2.2.2.2 Security Alert Reporting                                                                                                       -         -          -
 2.2.2.3 Cabinet, Safe and Room Security Forms                                                                                          A         -          -
 2.2.2.4 Proper Handling of Classified Materials /                                                                                      A         B          -
          Controlled Cryptographic Items (CCI)
 2.2.3 Communications Security (COMSEC)
        TR: AFI 33-211
 2.2.3.1 COMSEC Education Program                                                                                                       -         -          -
 2.2.3.2 Specific 2A2X3 Vulnerabilities                                                                                                 A         -          -
 2.2.4 Operations Security (OPSEC)
        TR: AFI 10-1101, AFPD 10-11
 2.2.4.1 Goals of OPSEC Program                                                                                                          -        -          -
 2.2.4.2 Specific 2A2X3Vulnerabilities                                                                                                   -        -          -
 2.2.4.3 Use CILs (Critical Information Lists)                                                                                           -        -          -

                                                                       24
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

2.2.5   Computer Security (COMPUSEC)                                                                                                 -         -         -
        TR: AFI 33-202
2.3 AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY and
      HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
      (COMMON) Safety Practices
2.3.1 RF Energy                                                                                                                     A         B          -
2.3.2 Noise                                                                                                                         A         B          -
2.3.3 Compressed Gases                                                                                                              A         B          -
2.3.4 Electrical Power                                                                                                              A         B          -
2.3.5 Hydraulic Power                                                                                                               A         B          -
2.3.6 Hazardous Liquids                                                                                                             A         B          -
2.3.7 Radioactive Parts and Materials                                                                                               -         -          -
2.3.8 Aircraft                                                                                                                      A         B          -
2.3.9 Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE)                                                                                              -         -          -
2.3.10 Electrical Equipment                                                                                                         A         B          -
2.3.11 STV Beryllium Mirrors                                                                                                        -         -          -
2.3.12 Lasers                                                                                                                       A         -          -
2.3.13 Composites                                                                                                                   A         -          -
2.3.14 FOD Prevention                                                                                                               -         -          -
        TR: AFI 21-101
2.3.15 Fall Protection/ Restraints                                                                                                  A          -         -
2.3.16 AF Nuclear Surety Program                                                                                                    -          -         -
        TR: AFPD 91-1, AFI 91-104
2.3.17 High Voltage                                                                                                                  -         -         -
2.4 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS and WASTE
      HANDLING ACCORDING TO
      ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
      (COMMON)
      TR: AFI-23-504/ EPA State Regulations
2.4.1 Types of Hazardous Material/ Fluids                                                                                           A          -         -
2.4.2 Handling Procedures                                                                                                           A          -         -
2.4.3 Storage and Labeling                                                                                                          A          -         -
2.4.4 Proper Disposal                                                                                                               A          -         -
2.4.5 Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)                                                                                             B          -         -
2.4.6 Report Hazardous Material Spills                                                                                              -          -         -
2.5 MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
      (COMMON)
      TR: AFI-21-101/ MAJCOM Directives
2.5.1 Purpose and Function of the Maintenance                                                                                        -        B          -
        Organization
2.5.2 Maintenance Accountability                                                                                                    -          -         -
2.5.3 Maintenance Resource Management                                                                                               A          -         -
2.5.4 Maintenance Management
2.5.4.1 Maintenance Group Commander                                                                                                  -         -         -
         Responsibilities
2.5.4.2 Logistics Management                                                                                                         -         -         -

                                                                  25
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

2.5.4.3 Resource Management                                                                                                          -         -         -
2.5.4.4 Technical Order Management                                                                                                   -         -         -
2.5.4.5 Product Improvement Working Group /                                                                                          -         -         -
          Test Planning Working Group / System
          Training Plan / Product Improvement
          Review
2.5.4.6 Financial Plan                                                                                                               -         -         -
2.5.4.7 Aircraft / Support Equipment Status                                                                                          -         -         -
          Monitoring
2.5.4.8 Maintenance QPM Relationships                                                                                                -        -          -
2.5.4.9 FOD Program Manager                                                                                                          -        -          -
2.5.4.10 Mobility                                                                                                                    -        -          -
2.5.4.11 Aircraft Inspection Systems                                                                                                 -        A          -
2.5.4.12 Maintenance Incident Investigation and                                                                                      -        -          -
          Prevention
2.5.4.13 Warranty Programs                                                                                                           -         -         -
2.5.4.14 Modification Proposal                                                                                                       -         -         -
2.5.4.15 SMR Change Request                                                                                                          -         -         -
2.5.4.16 Status Reports                                                                                                              -         -         -
2.5.4.17 Configuration Management                                                                                                    -         -         -
2.5.4.18 Status of Resources and Training                                                                                            -         -         -
          (SORTS)
2.5.4.19 Coordinate Precision Measurement                                                                                            -         -         -
          Equipment Laboratory Support
2.5.4.20 Minimum Essential Sub-System Listing                                                                                        -         -         -
          (MESL)
2.5.5 Maintenance Information System (MIS)
         TR: AFI 21-101
2.5.5.1 Purpose of the MIS                                                                                                          A          -         -
2.5.5.2 Maintenance Data Collection Forms                                                                                           B          -         -
2.6 GENERAL COMPUTER PRINCIPLES
      (COMMON)
2.6.1 Central Processing Unit                                                                                                       A         B          -
2.6.2 Memory Storage Devices                                                                                                        A         B          -
2.6.3 Power Supply                                                                                                                  A         B          -
2.6.4 Controls and Displays                                                                                                         A         B          -
2.6.5 Redundant Array of Independent Disks 0-5                                                                                      B         B          -
2.7 GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (GPS)
       (COMMON)
2.7.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                                   A         B          -
2.7.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           A         B          -
2.7.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                                    A         B          -
2.7.4 Operate Applicable MIS (IMDS, GO81,
        ECSS)
2.7.4.1 Create Discrepancy                                                                                                          2b         -         -
2.7.4.2 Schedule Discrepancy                                                                                                        2b         -         -

                                                                  26
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

2.7.4.3  Defer Discrepancy                                                                                                          2b         -         -
2.7.4.4  Transfer Discrepancy                                                                                                       2b         -         -
2.7.4.5  Sign-Off Discrepancy                           *                                                                           2b         -         -
2.7.4.6  Supply Transactions                                                                                                        2b         -         -
2.7.4.7  Order Aircraft Parts                                                                                                        -         -         -
2.7.4.8  Maintenance / Supervision Transactions                                                                                      -         -         -
2.7.4.9  Complete IMDS Course J6ANU00066-                                                                                            -         -         -
         043 CAMS for Flightline and Backshop
2.7.5 Deficiency Reporting System
2.7.5.1 Purpose                                                                                                                      -        B          -
2.7.5.2 Product Quality Deficiency Report                                                                                            -        A          -
2.7.6 Use Aircraft / Equipment Maintenance
       Forms
2.7.6.1 AFTO Form 781A                                  *                                                                           2b        A          -
2.7.6.2 AFTO Form 781B                                                                                                               -        -          -
2.7.6.3 AFTO Form 781C                                                                                                              2b        A          -
2.7.6.4 AFTO Form 781H                                                                                                              2b        A          -
2.7.6.5 AFTO Form 781K                                  *                                                                           2b        A          -
2.7.6.6 AFTO Form 244 / 245                             *                                                                           2b        A          -
2.7.6.7 Use AF Form 1492                                *                                                                           2b        A          -
2.7.6.8 Use AFTO 349                                                                                                                 -        -          -
2.7.6.9 Historical Records                                                                                                           -        -          -
2.8 SUPERVISION (COMMON)
      TR: AFI 36-2108/ AFI 36-2201/ AFI 21-
      101/ AFI 21-103
2.8.1 Orient New Personnel                                                                                                           -         -         -
2.8.2 Assign Personnel to Work Assignments                                                                                           -         -         -
2.8.3 Plan Work Assignments and Priorities                                                                                           -         -         -
2.8.4 Schedule Work Assignments and Priorities                                                                                       -         -         -
2.8.5 Coordinate Work Assignments                                                                                                    -         -         -
2.8.6 Establish
2.8.6.1 Work Methods                                                                                                                 -         -         -
2.8.6.2 Controls                                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.8.6.3 Performance Standards                                                                                                        -         -         -
2.8.7 Evaluate Work Performance of                                                                                                   -         -         -
        Subordinate Personnel
2.8.8 Help Resolve Technical Problems for                                                                                            -         -         -
        Subordinate
2.8.9 Initiate Actions to Correct Substandard                                                                                        -         -         -
       Performance
       TR: AFI 36-2503 / AFI 36-2907 /
       AFI 36-3202 / AFI 36-3208
2.8.10 Counsel Personnel and Help Resolve                                                                                            -         -         -
       Individual Problems
       TR: AFP 36-2618
2.8.11 Supervise
                                                                  27
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

       TR: AFI 21-101
2.8.11.1 Maintenance Actions                                                                                                         -         -         -
         TR: AFI 21-103
2.8.11.2 Inspection Actions                                                                                                          -         -         -
2.8.12 Use/ Interpret
2.8.12.1 Maintenance Reports                                                                                                         -         -         -
2.8.12.2 Inspection Reports                                                                                                          -         -         -
2.8.12.3 Review Maintenance Documentation                                                                                            -         -         -
2.8.13 Prepare
2.8.13.1 Maintenance Inspection Reports and                                                                                          -         -         -
          Charts
2.8.13.2 Organization and Functional Charts                                                                                          -         -         -
2.8.14 Justify
       TR: AFI 21-101
2.8.14.1 Personnel Manning Requirements                                                                                              -         -         -
2.8.14.2 Equipment Authorizations                                                                                                    -         -         -
2.8.15 Recommend Policy Changes on Use of
        TR: AFI 21-101
2.8.15.1 Personnel                                                                                                                   -         -         -
2.8.15.2 Equipment                                                                                                                   -         -         -
2.8.16 Statement of Charges                                                                                                          -         -         -
        TR: AFM 23-110 V-2
2.8.17 Perform Reports Of Survey                                                                                                     -         -         -
        TR: AFM 23-110 V-2
2.8.18 Aircraft Scheduling
       TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103
2.8.18.1 Utilize Flow Charts                                                                                                         -         -         -
2.8.18.2 Flying/ Maintenance Planning                                                                                                -         -         -
2.8.18.3 Maintenance Mobility Planning                                                                                               -         -         -
2.9 TRAINING (COMMON)
      TR: AFI 36-2201
2.9.1 Evaluate Personnel for Need of Training                                                                                        -         -         -
2.9.2 Plan and Supervise OJT/ Enlisted Training
2.9.2.1 Prepare JQS (AF Form 797)                                                                                                    -         -         -
2.9.2.2 Conduct Training                                                                                                             -         -         -
2.9.2.3 Counsel Trainees on their Progress                                                                                           -         -         -
2.9.3 Monitor Effectiveness Of Training
2.9.3.1 Career Knowledge Upgrade                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.9.3.2 Job Proficiency Upgrade                                                                                                      -         -         -
2.9.3.3 Qualification Training                                                                                                       -         -         -
2.9.3.4 Maintain Training Records                                                                                                    -         -         -
2.9.3.5 Develop Training Programs
2.9.3.6 Evaluate Effectiveness of Training                                                                                           -         -         -
         Programs
2.9.4 OJT Trainer Requirements
2.9.4.1 Prepare Teaching Outlines of Tasks                                                                                           -         -         -
                                                                  28
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

         Breakdowns
2.9.4.2 Provide Trainees Theory and Train on                                                                                         -         -         -
         Actual Equipment
2.9.4.3 Provide Feedback on Training Provided                                                                                        -         -         -
2.9.5 OJT Task Certifier Requirements
2.9.5.1 Develop Methods of Evaluation to                                                                                             -         -         -
         Determine Trainee Knowledge /
         Qualification and Training Effectiveness
2.9.5.2 Use Appropriate Method of Evaluation                                                                                         -         -         -
         and Effectively Determine Trainees
         Ability
2.9.5.3 Provide Supervisor and Trainee                                                                                               -         -         -
         Feedback on Results of Training
         Provided and Trainees Strengths and
         Weaknesses
2.9.6 Specialty Training Status (STS)                                                                                                -         -         -
2.9.7 Occupational Analysis Report (OAR)                                                                                             -         -         -
2.9.8 Utilization and Training Workshop (U                                                                                           -         -         -
        and TW)
2.9.9 Career Field Education and Training                                                                                            -         -         -
        Program (CFETP)
2.10 TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
      (COMMON)
      TR: Applicable 00-series technical orders,
      80-00-1
2.10.1 Scope and Application of Technical                                                                                           A         B          -
          Order System
2.10.2 Use Technical Order Indexes                                                                                                   -        -          -
2.10.3 Use Technical Orders                                                                                                         2b        -          -
2.10.4 Scope and Application of Technical                                                                                           A         A          -
          Order Improvement/ Deficiency Report
2.10.5 Initiate Technical Order Improvement /                                                                                        -         -         -
         Deficiency Report
2.10.6 Scope and Application of Computer                                                                                            A         A          -
         Program Identification Number (CPIN)
         System
2.10.7 Use CPIN Compendium                                                                                                          -         -          -
2.10.8 Time Compliance Technical Orders                                                                                             -         A          -
2.10.9 Maintain Technical Order Files                                                                                               -         -          -
2.10.10 Electronic Technical Orders                                                                                                 A         -          -
2.11 SUPPLY DISCIPLINE (COMMON)
       TR: AFMAN 23-110
2.11.1 Property Accountability and                                                                                                  A         B          -
         Responsibility
2.11.2 Equipment Authorization                                                                                                       -         -         -
         and Management
2.11.3 Special Requisitions                                                                                                          -         -         -

                                                                  29
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

2.11.4   Verify Back Order                                                                                                           -         -         -
2.11.5   Use Equipment Condition Tags                                                                                               2b         -         -
2.11.6    Use Microfiche/ Computer Based                                                                                             -         -         -
          Programs
2.11.7 Use Issue / Turn-In Requests                                                                                                 -         -          -
2.11.8 Maintenance Supply Concept                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.11.9 Supply Documents Management                                                                                                  -         -          -
2.11.10 Equipment Account Management                                                                                                -         -          -
2.11.11 Priority System                                                                                                             -         -          -
2.11.12 Repair Cycle                                                                                                                -         -          -
2.11.13 Classified Asset Handling                                                                                                   A         A          -
2.11.14 Land Mobile Radios / Pagers / Cell                                                                                          -         -          -
         Phones
2.11.15 Depot Level Repairables                                                                                                      -         -         -
2.11.16 Use Supply Products
2.11.16.1 D04                                                                                                                        -         -         -
2.11.16.2 D18                                                                                                                        -         -         -
2.11.16.3 M30                                                                                                                        -         -         -
2.11.16.4 D23                                                                                                                        -         -         -
2.12 ELECTRONIC WARFARE PRINCIPLES
       (COMMON)
       TR: AFDD 2-5.1
2.12.1 Electronic Warfare Combat Principles                                                                                         B         B          -
2.12.2 Electromagnetic Radiation (Directed                                                                                          B         B          -
         Energy)
2.12.3 EW Categories                                                                                                                B         B          -
2.12.4 Air Defense Systems                                                                                                          B         B          -
2.12.5 Infrared Principles                                                                                                          B         B          -
2.12.6 Radar Warning                                                                                                                B         B          -
2.13 SURVEILLANCE RADAR PRINCIPLES
        (COMMON)
2.13.1 Theory of Operation
2.13.1.1 Antenna Systems                                                                                                            B         B          -
2.13.1.2 Synthetic Aperture Radar                                                                                                   B         B          -
2.13.2 Frequency Generation
2.13.2.1 Operating Frequencies                                                                                                      B         B          -
2.13.2.2 Local Oscillator Frequencies                                                                                               B         B          -
2.13.2.3 Intermediate Frequencies                                                                                                   B         B          -
2.13.3 Amplification/ Transmitters
2.13.3.1 Pulsing                                                                                                                    B         B          -
2.13.3.2 Continuous Wave (CW)                                                                                                       B         B          -
2.13.3.3 Pulse Repetition Time/ Pulse                                                                                               B         B          -
           Repetition Frequency
2.13.4 Receiver Processing
2.13.4.1 IF Mixing                                                                                                                  B         B          -

                                                                  30
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

2.13.4.2 Analog to Digital Conversions                                                                                              B         B          -
2.13.4.3 Clutter Processing                                                                                                         B         B          -
2.13.4.4 Pulse Compression/ Expansion                                                                                               B         B          -
2.13.4.5 Doppler Processing                                                                                                         B         B          -
2.13.4.6 Timing and Synchronization                                                                                                 B         B          -
2.14 FUNDAMENTALS OF AVIONIC
        SYSTEMS MAINTENANCE/ ON
       EQUIPMENT (COMMON)
       TR: Applicable aircraft -1 and -2 series
       technical orders/ TO 00-25-234/ TO 1-1A-
        14/ TO 33-1-32
2.14.1 Nuclear Hardness Maintenance and                                                                                             A          -         -
         Inspections
         TR: Applicable System JG-00-1/ 1-1A-
         14
2.14.2 Use Aircraft Hardware                                                                                                         -         -         -
         TR: AFI 91-408/ Applicable Aircraft
         TOs
2.14.3 Consolidated Tool Kits
         TR: AFI 21-101
2.14.3.1 Inventory                                      *                                                                           2b        B          -
2.14.3.2 Tool Accountability                                                                                                        A         B          -
2.14.3.3 Lost Tool Report                                                                                                            -        B          -
2.14.4 Use Common Tools                                 *                                                                           2b        -          -
         TR: AFI 91-408/ TOs 00-25-24, 32-1-1,
         32-1-2, 32-1-101, 32-1-2011-1-691
2.14.5 Use Torque Indicating Devices                    *                                                                           2b        B          -
2.14.6 Use Special Purpose Tools                                                                                                     -        -          -
2.14.7 Protect Electrostatic Devices                    *                                                                           2b        -          -
2.14.8 Identify and Perform Corrosion Control                                                                                        a        -          -
2.14.9 Safety Wire                                      *                                                                           2b        -          -
2.14.10 Use Safetying Devices                                                                                                        -        -          -
2.14.11 Shear Wire                                                                                                                  b         -          -
2.14.12 Use Panel Sealants / Gaskets                                                                                                 -        A          -
2.15 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
      MAINTENANCE (COMMON)
      TR: Applicable Aircraft -1/ -2 Series TOs
2.15.1 Ensure Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                                                                                         2b         -         -
2.15.2 Aircraft Familiarization
2.15.2.1 Major Structural Areas                                                                                                     A         A          -
2.15.2.2 Major Systems                                                                                                              A         A          -
2.15.2.3 Danger Areas                                                                                                               A         B          -
2.15.2.4 Egress Systems                                                                                                             A         -          -
2.15.3 Apply External Air Conditioning                                                                                               -        -          -
2.15.4 Apply External Power                                                                                                         2b        -          -
2.15.5 Central Aircraft Support System (CASS)                                                                                        -        -          -

                                                                  31
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

2.15.6  Perform Selected Classified Data Erase                                                                                       -         -         -
2.15.7   Apply Hydraulic Power                                                                                                       -         -         -
2.15.8  Perform Proximity Switch Control                                                                                             -         -         -
         Covering/ Uncovering
2.15.9 Practice Safe Entry Procedures on                                                                                             -         -         -
         Aircraft with Open Fuel Cells
2.15.10 Purpose of Radar Absorption Material                                                                                        A          -         -
        (RAM)
2.15.11 Operate Motorized Maintenance Stand                                                                                          -         -         -
2.15.12 Operate Crane                                                                                                                -         -         -
2.15.13 Launch/ Recover Aircraft                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.15.14 Tow Aircraft
2.15.14.1 Wing/ Tail Walker                                                                                                          -         -         -
2.15.14.2 Brake Operator                                                                                                             -         -         -
2.15.14.3 Tow Supervisor                                                                                                             -         -         -
2.15.14.4 Tow Vehicle Operator                                                                                                       -         -         -
2.15.15 Perform Aircraft Inspection
2.15.15.1 Phase                                                                                                                      -        A          -
2.15.15.2 Isochronal                                                                                                                 -        A          -
2.15.15.3 Special (excluding AN/USM-464 and                                                                                          -        A          -
           AN/ALM-288 checks)
2.15.15.4 Perform Aircraft Wash                                                                                                      -         -         -
2.15.15.5 Perform Aircraft De-Icing                                                                                                  -         -         -
2.15.15.6 Brief/ Debrief Aircrews                                                                                                    -         -         -
2.15.16 Use Powered AGE
2.15.16.1 Bleed Air Cart                                                                                                             -         -         -
2.15.16.2 Heater                                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.15.16.3 Air Conditioner                                                                                                            -         -         -
2.15.16.4 Light Cart                                                                                                                 -         -         -
2.15.16.5 Air Compressor (MC-1A / MC-2A)                                                                                             -         -         -
2.15.16.6 Ground Power Unit                                                                                                          -         -         -
2.15.16.7 Powered Man-Lifts                                                                                                          -         -         -
2.15.16.8 Motorized Maintenance Stand                                                                                                -         -         -
2.15.16.9 Nitrogen Cart                                                                                                              -         -         -
2.15.17 Use Non-Powered AGE
2.15.17.1 Maintenance Platform (B-1)                                                                                                2b         -         -
2.15.17.2 Maintenance Platform (B-2)                                                                                                 -         -         -
2.15.17.3 Maintenance Platform (B-4 / B-5)                                                                                          2b         -         -
2.15.17.4 Maintenance Platform (B-6)                                                                                                 -         -         -
2.15.17.5 Maintenance Platform (B-7)                                                                                                 -         -         -
2.15.17.6 Maintenance Platform (C-1)                                                                                                 -         -         -
2.15.18 Data Bus Principles / Maintenance
          Practices
2.15.18.1 Local Area Networks                                                                                                       A         B          -
2.15.18.2 Network Management                                                                                                        B         A          -

                                                                  32
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

2.15.18.3 Build CAT 5 Cable                                                                                                       2b/b        -          -
2.15.18.4 Test CAT 5 Cable                                                                                                        2b/b        -          -
2.15.18.5 Network Configuration                                                                                                   2b/b        -          -
2.15.18.6 MIL-STD-1553A                                                                                                            A          A          -
2.15.18.7 MIL-STD-1553B                                                                                                            A          A          -
2.15.18.8 RS-232                                                                                                                   -          -          -
2.15.18.9 RS-422                                                                                                                   -          -          -
2.15.18.10 MIL-STD-1760                                                                                                            -          -          -
2.15.18.11 Fiber Optics                                                                                                            -          B          -
2.15.18.12 Troubleshoot Data Bus                                                                                                   -          -          -
2.16 USE TEST EQUIPMENT (COMMON)
2.16.1 Radar Simulator                                                                                                             2b         A          -
2.16.2 Serial Bus Analyzer                                                                                                          -         -          -
2.16.3 Transmission Line Test Set                                                                                                  1b         A          -
2.16.4 Fiber Optic Test Set                                                                                                       2b/b        A          -
2.16.5 Pulse Generator                                                                                                             2b         -          -
2.16.6 Network Analyzer                                                                                                            2b         A          -
2.16.7 Power Meter                                                                                                                 2b         A          -
2.16.8 Spectrum Analyzer                                                                                                           2b         A          -
2.16.9 Time Domain Reflect Meter (TDR)                                                                                             1b         A          -
2.16.10 ALM-288                                                                                                                    2b         A          -
2.16.11 Frequency Counter                                                                                                          2b         A          -
2.16.12 Oscilloscope                                                                                                               2b         A          -
2.16.13 Multimeter                                                                                                                 2b         A          -
2.16.14 Ethernet Cable Tester                                                                                                       -         -          -
2.16.15 RF Signal Generator                                                                                                        2b         -          -
2.16.16 Milliohmn Meter                                                                                                             -         -          -
2.16.17 Reprogramming Support Equipment
2.16.17.1 Data Access Devices                                                                                                        -        -          -
2.16.17.2 Data Transfer Devices                                                                                                     2b        A          -
2.17 MAINTAIN (COMMON)                                                                                                               -        -          -
2.17.1 PLM-4 Radar Simulator or Equivalent                                                                                           -        -          -
2.17.2 PYM-1 CAPRE                                                                                                                   -        -          -
2.17.3 MWS Sensor Simulator                                                                                                          -        -          -
2.17.4 MWS Test Set                                                                                                                  -        -          -
2.17.5 AN/ALM-288 Countermeasure                                                                                                     -        -          -
       Dispenser Tester (CDT)
2.17.6 AN/ALM 178                                                                                                                    -         -         -
       TR: TM 11-6625-2739-14
2.17.7 AN/USM-464A                                                                                                                   -        -          -
2.17.8 AN/PLM-6B Multi-Purpose Electro-                                                                                              -        A          -
       Optical End-to-End Tester (MEON)
2.18 AIRCRAFT WIRING/ TRANSMISSION
       LINES (COMMON)
       TR: TO 1-1A-14/ TO 12P3-1-10/ TO 31-

                                                                  33
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                    4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                  Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level     Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

       10-14
2.18.1 Kapton Wire                                                                                                                   -         -          -
2.18.2 Multiconductor                                                                                                                -         B          -
2.18.3 Coaxial/ Triaxial/ Twinaxial                                                                                                  -         B          -
2.18.4 Nuclear Hardened Cable                                                                                                        B         B          -
2.18.5 Waveguides                                                                                                                    -         B
2.18.6 Single Conductor                                                                                                              -         B          -
2.18.7 Rigid Coaxial                                                                                                                 -         B          -
2.18.8 Fiber Optics                                                                                                                  -         B          -
2.19 PERFORM WIRE MAINTENANCE
       (COMMON)
       TR: TO 1-1a-14/ TO 31-10-14
2.19.1 Stripping                                                                                                                    2b         B          -
2.19.2 Video Splicing                                                                                                              2b/b        B          -
2.19.3 Environmental Splicing                                                                                                        -         B          -
2.19.4 Bundling                                                                                                                     2b         B          -
2.19.5 Strain Relief                                                                                                                2b         B          -
2.19.6 Continuity Checks                                                                                                            2b         -          -
2.19.7 Wire Repair                                       *                                                                           -         B          -
2.19.8 Splice Fiber Optics                                                                                                           -         -          -
2.19.9 Clean Fiber Optics                                                                                                            -         -          -
2.19.10 Solder RF Connector                                                                                                        2b/b        -          -
2.19.11 Assemble / Disassemble Solderless
         Connectors
2.19.11.1 Crimp Connectors                               *                                                                         2b/b         -         -
2.19.11.2 Coaxial Connectors                                                                                                       2b/b         -         -
2.20 REMOVE AND INSTALL
NOTE: Qualification on line items 2.20.1 through
2.20.14 qualifies the individual on all similar
system components throughout this training
record unless identified separately in the specific
system or in writing by the supervisor.
2.20.1 Shock Mounted                                     *                                                                            -         -         -
2.20.2 Tray Mounted                                      *                                                                            -         -         -
2.20.3 Rack Mounted                                      *                                                                            -         -         -
2.20.4 Console Mounted                                   *                                                                           2b         -         -
2.20.5 Aircraft Surface Mounted                          *                                                                           2b         -         -
2.20.6 Clamp Mounted Components                                                                                                       -         -         -
2.20.7 Bezel Mounted Components                                                                                                       -         -         -
2.20.8 Latch Mounted Components                          *                                                                            -         -         -
2.20.9 Bulkhead Mounted                                                                                                               -         -         -
2.20.10 Equipment Mounted                                *                                                                            -         -         -
2.20.11 Minor Parts and Hardware (i.e. relay,            *                                                                            -         -         -
         switches, bulbs, circuit breakers)
2.20.12 Capacitors / Resistors / Diodes                                                                                               -         -         -
2.20.13 Terminal / Modular Blocks                                                                                                     -         -         -
                                                                   34
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

2.20.14 Chassis Mounted                                                                                                              -         -         -
2.21 BIT THEORY OF OPERATION
2.21.1 Manual BIT                                                                                                                   A          -         -
2.21.2 Automatic BIT                                                                                                                A          -         -
2.22 PANORAMIC RECIEVER
2.22.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                                   -        -          -
2.22.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          B         B          -
2.22.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                     -        -          -
2.22.2 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                    2b        -          -
2.22.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                 2b        -          -
2.23 RF JAMMING TRANSMITTER SET
2.23.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                                   -         -         -
2.23.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -         -
2.23.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.23.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.23.5 Reprogram                                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.23.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                  -         -         -
2.24 AN/ALE-47 CMDS
2.24.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                                   -         -         -
2.24.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -         -
2.24.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.24.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.24.5 Reprogram AN/ALE-47 CMDS                                                                                                      -         -         -
2.24.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                  -         -         -
2.25 AN/AAR-47 (V1) MISSILE WARNING
      SYSTEM
2.25.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                                   -         -         -
2.25.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -         -
2.25.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.25.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.25.5 Reprogram                                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.25.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                  -         -         -
2.26 AN/AAR-47 (V2) MISSILE WARNING
      SYSTEM
2.26.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                                   -         -         -
2.26.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -         -
2.26.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.26.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.26.5 Reprogram                                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.26.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                  -         -         -
2.27 RADAR WARNING RECEIVER
2.27.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                                   -         -         -
2.27.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -         -
2.27.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.27.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -
                                                                  35
                                 E-3, E-8, RC-135 and EC-130 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                        2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                                 Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level     Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course    CDC       CDC

2.27.5 Reprogram                                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.28 AN/AAQ-24 (V) 13 LARGE AIRCRAFT
      INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES
      SYSTEM (LAIRCM)
2.28.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                                   -         -         -
2.28.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                           -         -         -
2.28.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.28.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.28.5 Reprogram                                                                                                                     -         -         -
2.29 DATA LINK
2.29.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                                  -         -          -
2.29.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          A         A          -
2.29.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                    -         -          -
2.29.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                    -         -          -




                                                                  36
                                B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                          3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                       Training/Information Provided
                                                            A         B        A         B         C          D            E          A         B         C
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                        3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level     Level
                                                          5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer     Certifier     (1)       (2)       (2)
                                                                              Start   Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials    Course     CDC       CDC

Attachment 3 – B-1, B-2, B-52 General Training Requirements
This general training requirements section is used to show necessary changes to the individual CFETP STS line items, for 2A9X3E/F/G
shreds, in order to have the same level requirements across the shreds.
  NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A933XXXXX, Bomber/Special Avionics Integrated Electronic Warfare Systems Apprentice,
             will use representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific
             STS. The general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be
             taught in the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common
             sections to identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
  NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
  NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
  NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
  NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
             not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
             Attachment is waived.
  NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
             736-7908
3 CFETP 2A9X3E/F/G – ELECTRONIC
    WARFARE SYSTEMS
3.1 CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
      (COMMON)
3.1.1 Progression in Career Ladder 2A9X3                                                                                               -         -         -
       TR: AFI 36-2108 / AFVA 39-1
3.1.2 Duties of 3-, 5-, and 7-Level Personnel                                                                                         -         A          -
3.1.3 Concepts/Philosophy of Electronic                                                                                               A         -          -
        Warfare
3.2 SECURITY (COMMON)
3.2.1 Information Security
       TR: AFI-31-401 / AFI 31-501 /
       AFPD 31- 4 / AFPD 31-5
3.2.1.1 Mark Classified Information                                                                                                    -        -          -
3.2.1.2 Prevention of Security Violations                                                                                              -        -          -
3.2.1.3 Access to Classified Information                                                                                               -        -          -
3.2.1.4 Use Security Classification Guide                                                                                              a        B          -
3.2.2 Physical Security
       TR: DODR 5200.1R
3.2.2.1 Control of Restricted Areas                                                                                                   -         -          -
3.2.2.2 Security Alert Reporting                                                                                                      -         -          -
3.2.2.3 Cabinet, Safe and Room Security Forms                                                                                         A         -          -
3.2.2.4 Proper Handling of Classified Materials /                                                                                     A         B          -
         Controlled Cryptographic Items (CCI)
3.2.3 Communications Security (COMSEC)
       TR: AFI 33-211
3.2.3.1 COMSEC Education Program                                                                                                      -          -         -
3.2.3.2 Specific 2A2X3 Vulnerabilities                                                                                                A          -         -
3.2.4 Operations Security (OPSEC)
       TR: AFI 10-1101, AFPD 10-11
3.2.4.1 Goals of OPSEC Program                                                                                                         -         -         -
3.2.4.2 Specific 2A2X3Vulnerabilities                                                                                                  -         -         -
3.2.4.3 Use CILs (Critical Information Lists)                                                                                          -         -         -
3.2.5 Computer Security (COMPUSEC)                                                                                                     -         -         -
        TR: AFI 33-202
                                                                       37
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                         Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                         Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References      A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                          3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                          Level     Level     Level
                                                5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                    Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

3.3 AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY and
      HEALTH (AFOSH) PROGRAM
      (COMMON) Safety Practices
3.3.1 RF Energy                                                                                                             A         B          -
3.3.2 Noise                                                                                                                 A         B          -
3.3.3 Compressed Gases                                                                                                      A         B          -
3.3.4 Electrical Power                                                                                                      A         B          -
3.3.5 Hydraulic Power                                                                                                       A         B          -
3.3.6 Hazardous Liquids                                                                                                     A         B          -
3.3.7 Radioactive Parts and Materials                                                                                       -         -          -
3.3.8 Aircraft                                                                                                              A         B          -
3.3.9 Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE)                                                                                      -         -          -
3.3.10 Electrical Equipment                                                                                                 A         B          -
3.3.11 STV Beryllium Mirrors                                                                                                -         -          -
3.3.12 Lasers                                                                                                               A         -          -
3.3.13 Composites                                                                                                           A         -          -
3.3.14 FOD Prevention                                                                                                       -         -          -
        TR: AFI 21-101
3.3.15 Fall Protection/ Restraints                                                                                          A          -         -
3.3.16 AF Nuclear Surety Program                                                                                            -          -         -
        TR: AFPD 91-1, AFI 91-104
3.3.17 High Voltage                                                                                                          -         -         -
3.4 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS and WASTE
      HANDLING ACCORDING TO
      ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
      (COMMON)
      TR: AFI-23-504/ EPA State Regulations
3.4.1 Types of Hazardous Material/ Fluids                                                                                   A          -         -
3.4.2 Handling Procedures                                                                                                   A          -         -
3.4.3 Storage and Labeling                                                                                                  A          -         -
3.4.4 Proper Disposal                                                                                                       A          -         -
3.4.5 Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)                                                                                     B          -         -
3.4.6 Report Hazardous Material Spills                                                                                      -          -         -
3.5 MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
      (COMMON)
      TR: AFI-21-101/ MAJCOM Directives
3.5.1 Purpose and Function of the Maintenance                                                                                -        B          -
        Organization
3.5.2 Maintenance Accountability                                                                                            -          -         -
3.5.3 Maintenance Resource Management                                                                                       A          -         -
3.5.4 Maintenance Management
3.5.4.1 Maintenance Group Commander                                                                                          -         -         -
         Responsibilities
3.5.4.2 Logistics Management                                                                                                 -         -         -
3.5.4.3 Resource Management                                                                                                  -         -         -
3.5.4.4 Technical Order Management
3.5.4.5 Product Improvement Working Group /                                                                                  -         -         -
                                                             38
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                  3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                           Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level     Level
                                                  5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

          Test Planning Working Group / System
         Training Plan / Product Improvement
         Review
3.5.4.6 Financial Plan                                                                                                         -         -         -
3.5.4.7 Aircraft / Support Equipment Status                                                                                    -         -         -
          Monitoring
3.5.4.8 Maintenance QPM Relationships                                                                                          -        -          -
3.5.4.9 FOD Program Manager                                                                                                    -        -          -
3.5.4.10 Mobility                                                                                                              -        -          -
3.5.4.11 Aircraft Inspection Systems                                                                                           -        A          -
3.5.4.12 Maintenance Incident Investigation and                                                                                -        -          -
          Prevention
3.5.4.13 Warranty Programs                                                                                                     -         -         -
3.5.4.14 Modification Proposal                                                                                                 -         -         -
3.5.4.15 SMR Change Request                                                                                                    -         -         -
3.5.4.16 Status Reports                                                                                                        -         -         -
3.5.4.17 Configuration Management                                                                                              -         -         -
3.5.4.18 Status of Resources and Training                                                                                      -         -         -
          (SORTS)
3.5.4.19 Coordinate Precision Measurement                                                                                      -         -         -
          Equipment Laboratory Support
3.5.4.20 Minimum Essential Sub-System Listing                                                                                  -         -         -
          (MESL)
3.5.5 Maintenance Information System (MIS)
         TR: AFI 21-101
3.5.5.1 Purpose of the MIS                                                                                                    A          -         -
3.5.5.2 Maintenance Data Collection Forms                                                                                     B          -         -
3.6 GENERAL COMPUTER PRINCIPLES
      (COMMON)
3.6.1 Central Processing Unit                                                                                                 A         B          -
3.6.2 Memory Storage Devices                                                                                                  A         B          -
3.6.3 Power Supply                                                                                                            A         B          -
3.6.4 Controls and Displays                                                                                                   A         B          -
3.6.5 Redundant Array of Independent Disks 0-5                                                                                B         B          -
3.7 GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (GPS)
       (COMMON)
3.7.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                             A         B          -
3.7.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                     A         B          -
3.7.3 System Tie-In/ Integration                                                                                              A         B          -
3.7.4 Operate Applicable MIS (IMDS, GO81,
        ECSS)
3.7.4.1 Create Discrepancy                                                                                                    2b         -         -
3.7.4.2 Schedule Discrepancy                                                                                                  2b         -         -
3.7.4.3 Defer Discrepancy                                                                                                     2b         -         -
3.7.4.4 Transfer Discrepancy                                                                                                  2b         -         -
3.7.4.5 Sign-Off Discrepancy                        *                                                                         2b         -         -
3.7.4.6 Supply Transactions                                                                                                   2b         -         -
                                                               39
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                 3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                          Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                          Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References       A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                           3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                           Level     Level     Level
                                                 5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                     Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

3.7.4.7 Order Aircraft Parts                                                                                                  -         -         -
3.7.4.8 Maintenance / Supervision Transactions                                                                                -         -         -
3.7.4.9 Complete IMDS Course J6ANU00066-                                                                                      -         -         -
         043 CAMS for Flightline and Backshop
3.7.5 Deficiency Reporting System
3.7.5.1 Purpose                                                                                                               -        B          -
3.7.5.2 Product Quality Deficiency Report                                                                                     -        A          -
3.7.6 Use Aircraft / Equipment Maintenance
       Forms
3.7.6.1 AFTO Form 781A                             *                                                                         2b        A          -
3.7.6.2 AFTO Form 781B                                                                                                        -        -          -
3.7.6.3 AFTO Form 781C                                                                                                       2b        A          -
3.7.6.4 AFTO Form 781H                                                                                                       2b        A          -
3.7.6.5 AFTO Form 781K                             *                                                                         2b        A          -
3.7.6.6 AFTO Form 244 / 245                        *                                                                         2b        A          -
3.7.6.7 Use AF Form 1492                           *                                                                         2b        A          -
3.7.6.8 Use AFTO 349                                                                                                          -        -          -
3.7.6.9 Historical Records                                                                                                    -        -          -
3.8 SUPERVISION (COMMON)
      TR: AFI 36-2108/ AFI 36-2201/ AFI 21-
      101/ AFI 21-103
3.8.1 Orient New Personnel                                                                                                    -         -         -
3.8.2 Assign Personnel to Work Assignments                                                                                    -         -         -
3.8.3 Plan Work Assignments and Priorities                                                                                    -         -         -
3.8.4 Schedule Work Assignments and Priorities                                                                                -         -         -
3.8.5 Coordinate Work Assignments                                                                                             -         -         -
3.8.6 Establish
3.8.6.1 Work Methods                                                                                                          -         -         -
3.8.6.2 Controls                                                                                                              -         -         -
3.8.6.3 Performance Standards                                                                                                 -         -         -
3.8.7 Evaluate Work Performance of                                                                                            -         -         -
        Subordinate Personnel
3.8.8 Help Resolve Technical Problems for                                                                                     -         -         -
        Subordinate
3.8.9 Initiate Actions to Correct Substandard                                                                                 -         -         -
       Performance
       TR: AFI 36-2503 / AFI 36-2907 /
       AFI 36-3202 / AFI 36-3208
3.8.10 Counsel Personnel and Help Resolve                                                                                     -         -         -
       Individual Problems
       TR: AFP 36-2618
3.8.11 Supervise
       TR: AFI 21-101
3.8.11.1 Maintenance Actions                                                                                                  -         -         -
         TR: AFI 21-103
3.8.11.2 Inspection Actions                                                                                                   -         -         -
3.8.12 Use/ Interpret
                                                              40
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                  3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                           Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level     Level
                                                  5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

3.8.12.1 Maintenance Reports                                                                                                   -         -         -
3.8.12.2 Inspection Reports                                                                                                    -         -         -
3.8.12.3 Review Maintenance Documentation                                                                                      -         -         -
3.8.13 Prepare
3.8.13.1 Maintenance Inspection Reports and                                                                                    -         -         -
         Charts
3.8.13.2 Organization and Functional Charts                                                                                    -         -         -
3.8.14 Justify
       TR: AFI 21-101
3.8.14.1 Personnel Manning Requirements                                                                                        -         -         -
3.8.14.2 Equipment Authorizations                                                                                              -         -         -
3.8.15 Recommend Policy Changes on Use of
        TR: AFI 21-101
3.8.15.1 Personnel
3.8.15.2 Equipment
3.8.16 Statement of Charges                                                                                                    -         -         -
        TR: AFM 23-110 V-2
3.8.17 Perform Reports Of Survey                                                                                               -         -         -
        TR: AFM 23-110 V-2
3.8.18 Aircraft Scheduling
       TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103
3.8.18.1 Utilize Flow Charts                                                                                                   -         -         -
3.8.18.2 Flying/ Maintenance Planning                                                                                          -         -         -
3.8.18.3 Maintenance Mobility Planning                                                                                         -         -         -
3.9 TRAINING (COMMON)
      TR: AFI 36-2201
3.9.1 Evaluate Personnel for Need of Training                                                                                  -         -         -
3.9.2 Plan and Supervise OJT/ Enlisted Training
3.9.2.1 Prepare JQS (AF Form 797)                                                                                              -         -         -
3.9.2.2 Conduct Training                                                                                                       -         -         -
3.9.2.3 Counsel Trainees on their Progress                                                                                     -         -         -
3.9.3 Monitor Effectiveness Of Training
3.9.3.1 Career Knowledge Upgrade                                                                                               -         -         -
3.9.3.2 Job Proficiency Upgrade                                                                                                -         -         -
3.9.3.3 Qualification Training                                                                                                 -         -         -
3.9.3.4 Maintain Training Records                                                                                              -         -         -
3.9.3.5 Develop Training Programs
3.9.3.6 Evaluate Effectiveness of Training                                                                                     -         -         -
         Programs
3.9.4 OJT Trainer Requirements
3.9.4.1 Prepare Teaching Outlines of Tasks                                                                                     -         -         -
         Breakdowns
3.9.4.2 Provide Trainees Theory and Train on                                                                                   -         -         -
         Actual Equipment
3.9.4.3 Provide Feedback on Training Provided                                                                                  -         -         -
3.9.5 OJT Task Certifier Requirements

                                                               41
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                             Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                             Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                              3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                              Level     Level     Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                        Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

3.9.5.1 Develop Methods of Evaluation to                                                                                         -         -         -
         Determine Trainee Knowledge /
         Qualification and Training Effectiveness
3.9.5.2 Use Appropriate Method of Evaluation                                                                                     -         -         -
         and Effectively Determine Trainees
         Ability
3.9.5.3 Provide Supervisor and Trainee                                                                                           -         -         -
         Feedback on Results of Training
         Provided and Trainees Strengths and
         Weaknesses
3.9.6 Specialty Training Status (STS)                                                                                            -         -         -
3.9.7 Occupational Survey Report (OSR)                                                                                           -         -         -
3.9.8 Utilization and Training Workshop (U                                                                                       -         -         -
        and TW)
3.9.9 Career Field Education and Training                                                                                        -         -         -
        Program (CFETP)
3.10 TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
       (COMMON)
       TR: Applicable 00-series technical orders,
       80-00-1
3.10.1 Scope and Application of Technical                                                                                       A         B          -
          Order System
3.10.2 Use Technical Order Indexes                                                                                               -        -          -
3.10.3 Use Technical Orders                                                                                                     2b        -          -
3.10.4 Scope and Application of Technical                                                                                       A         A          -
          Order Improvement/ Deficiency Report
3.10.5 Initiate Technical Order Improvement /                                                                                    -         -         -
         Deficiency Report
3.10.6 Scope and Application of Computer                                                                                        A         A          -
         Program Identification Number (CPIN)
         System
3.10.7 Use CPIN Compendium                                                                                                      -         -          -
3.10.8 Time Compliance Technical Orders                                                                                         -         A          -
3.10.9 Maintain Technical Order Files                                                                                           -         -          -
3.10.10 Electronic Technical Orders                                                                                             A         -          -
3.11 SUPPLY DISCIPLINE (COMMON)
       TR: AFMAN 23-110
3.11.1 Property Accountability and                                                                                              A         B          -
         Responsibility
3.11.2 Equipment Authorization                                                                                                   -         -         -
         and Management
3.11.3 Special Requisitions                                                                                                      -         -         -
3.11.4 Verify Back Order                                                                                                         -         -         -
3.11.5 Use Equipment Condition Tags                                                                                             2b         -         -
3.11.6 Use Microfiche/ Computer Based                                                                                            -         -         -
          Programs
3.11.7 Use Issue / Turn-In Requests                                                                                              -         -         -
3.11.8 Maintenance Supply Concept                                                                                                -         -         -

                                                                 42
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                        Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                        Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level     Level     Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

3.11.9   Supply Documents Management                                                                                       -         -          -
3.11.10   Equipment Account Management                                                                                     -         -          -
3.11.11   Priority System                                                                                                  -         -          -
3.11.12   Repair Cycle                                                                                                     -         -          -
3.11.13   Classified Asset Handling                                                                                        A         A          -
3.11.14   Land Mobile Radios / Pagers / Cell                                                                               -         -          -
          Phones
3.11.15 Depot Level Repairables                                                                                             -         -         -
3.11.16 Use Supply Products
3.11.16.1 DO4                                                                                                               -         -         -
3.11.16.2 D18                                                                                                               -         -         -
3.11.16.3 M30                                                                                                               -         -         -
3.11.16.4 D23                                                                                                               -         -         -
3.12 ELECTRONIC WARFARE PRINCIPLES
       (COMMON)
       TR: AFDD 2-5.1
3.12.1 Electronic Warfare Combat Principles                                                                                B         B          -
3.12.2 Electromagnetic Radiation (Directed                                                                                 B         B          -
         Energy)
3.12.3 EW Categories                                                                                                       B         B          -
3.12.4 Air Defense Systems                                                                                                 B         B          -
3.12.5 Infrared Principles                                                                                                 B         B          -
3.12.6 Radar Warning                                                                                                       B         B          -
3.13 SURVEILLANCE RADAR PRINCIPLES
        (COMMON)
3.13.1 Theory of Operation
3.13.1.1 Antenna Systems                                                                                                    -        B          -
3.13.1.2 Synthetic Aperture Radar                                                                                           -        B          -
3.13.2 Frequency Generation
3.13.2.1 Operating Frequencies                                                                                              -        B          -
3.13.2.2 Local Oscillator Frequencies                                                                                       -        B          -
3.13.2.3 Intermediate Frequencies                                                                                           -        B          -
3.13.3 Amplification/ Transmitters
3.13.3.1 Pulsing                                                                                                            -        B          -
3.13.3.2 Continuous Wave (CW)                                                                                               -        B          -
3.13.3.3 Pulse Repetition Time/ Pulse                                                                                       -        B          -
           Repetition Frequency
3.13.4 Receiver Processing
3.13.4.1 IF Mixing                                                                                                          -        B          -
3.13.4.2 Analog to Digital Conversions                                                                                      -        B          -
3.13.4.3 Clutter Processing                                                                                                 -        B          -
3.13.4.4 Pulse Compression/ Expansion                                                                                       -        B          -
3.13.4.5 Doppler Processing                                                                                                 -        B          -
3.13.4.6 Timing and Synchronization                                                                                         -        B          -
3.14 FUNDAMENTALS OF AVIONIC
        SYSTEMS MAINTENANCE/ ON

                                                            43
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                  3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                           Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                           Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References        A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                            3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                            Level     Level     Level
                                                  5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                      Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

       EQUIPMENT (COMMON)
       TR: Applicable aircraft -1 and -2 series
        technical orders/ TO 00-25-234/ TO 1-
        1A-14/ TO 33-1-32
3.14.1 Nuclear Hardness Maintenance and                                                                                       A          -         -
         Inspections
          TR: Applicable System JG-00-1/ 1-1A-
          14
3.14.2 Use Aircraft Hardware                                                                                                   -         -         -
          TR: AFI 91-408/ Applicable Aircraft
          TOs
3.14.3 Consolidated Tool Kits
         TR: AFI 21-101
3.14.3.1 Inventory                                  *                                                                         2b        B          -
3.14.3.2 Tool Accountability                                                                                                  A         B          -
3.14.3.3 Lost Tool Report                                                                                                      -        B          -
3.14.4     Use Common Tools                         *                                                                         2b        -          -
           TR: AFI 91-408/ TOs 00-25-24, 32-1-
           1, 32-1-2, 32-1-101, 32-1-2011-1-691
3.14.5 Use Torque Indicating Devices                *                                                                         2b        B          -
3.14.6 Use Special Purpose Tools                                                                                               -        -          -
3.14.7 Protect Electrostatic Devices                                                                                          B         -          -
3.14.8 Identify and Perform Corrosion Control                                                                                  a        -          -
3.14.9 Safety Wire                                  *                                                                         2b        -          -
3.14.10 Use Safetying Devices                                                                                                  -        -          -
3.14.11 Shear Wire                                                                                                            b         -          -
3.14.12 Use Panel Sealants / Gaskets                                                                                           -        A          -
3.15 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
       MAINTENANCE (COMMON)
      TR: Applicable Aircraft -1/ -2 Series TOs
3.15.1 Ensure Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                                                                                   2b         -         -
3.15.2 Aircraft Familiarization
3.15.2.1 Major Structural Areas                                                                                               A         A          -
3.15.2.2 Major Systems                                                                                                        A         A          -
3.15.2.3 Danger Areas                                                                                                         A         B          -
3.15.2.4 Egress Systems                                                                                                       A         -          -
3.15.3 Apply External Air Conditioning                                                                                         -        -          -
3.15.4 Apply External Power                                                                                                   2b        -          -
3.15.5 Central Aircraft Support System (CASS)                                                                                  -        -          -
3.15.6 Perform Selected Classified Data Erase                                                                                  -        -          -
3.15.7 Apply Hydraulic Power                                                                                                   -        -          -
3.15.8 Perform Proximity Switch Control                                                                                        -        -          -
         Covering/ Uncovering
3.15.9 Practice Safe Entry Procedures on                                                                                       -         -         -
         Aircraft with Open Fuel Cells
3.15.10 Purpose of Radar Absorption Material                                                                                  A          -         -
          (RAM)

                                                               44
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                        Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                        Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level     Level     Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

3.15.11 Operate Motorized Maintenance Stand                                                                                 -         -         -
3.15.12 Operate Crane                                                                                                       -         -         -
3.15.13 Launch/ Recover Aircraft                                                                                            -         -         -
3.15.14 Tow Aircraft
3.15.14.1 Wing/ Tail Walker                                                                                                 -         -         -
3.15.14.2 Brake Operator                                                                                                    -         -         -
3.15.14.3 Tow Supervisor                                                                                                    -         -         -
3.15.14.4 Tow Vehicle Operator                                                                                              -         -         -
3.15.15 Perform Aircraft Inspection
3.15.15.1 Phase                                                                                                             -        A          -
3.15.15.2 Isochronal                                                                                                        -        A          -
3.15.15.3 Special (excluding AN/USM-464 and                                                                                 -        A          -
          AN/ALM-288 checks)
3.15.15.4 Perform Aircraft Wash                                                                                             -         -         -
3.15.15.5 Perform Aircraft De-Icing                                                                                         -         -         -
3.15.15.6 Brief/ Debrief Aircrews                                                                                           -         -         -
3.15.16 Use Powered AGE
3.15.16.1 Bleed Air Cart                                                                                                    -         -         -
3.15.16.2 Heater                                                                                                            -         -         -
3.15.16.3 Air Conditioner                                                                                                   -         -         -
3.15.16.4 Light Cart                                                                                                        -         -         -
3.15.16.5 Air Compressor (MC-1A / MC-2A)                                                                                    -         -         -
3.15.16.6 Ground Power Unit                                                                                                 -         -         -
3.15.16.7 Powered Man-Lifts                                                                                                 -         -         -
3.15.16.8 Motorized Maintenance Stand                                                                                       -         -         -
3.15.16.9 Nitrogen Cart                                                                                                     -         -         -
3.15.17 Use Non-Powered AGE
3.15.17.1 Maintenance Platform (B-1)                                                                                       2b         -         -
3.15.17.2 Maintenance Platform (B-2)                                                                                        -         -         -
3.15.17.3 Maintenance Platform (B-4 / B-5)                                                                                 2b         -         -
3.15.17.4 Maintenance Platform (B-6)                                                                                        -         -         -
3.15.17.5 Maintenance Platform (B-7)                                                                                        -         -         -
3.15.17.6 Maintenance Platform (C-1)                                                                                        -         -         -
3.15.18 Data Bus Principles / Maintenance
          Practices
3.15.18.1 Local Area Networks                                                                                              A         B          -
3.15.18.2 Network Management                                                                                               -         -          -
3.15.18.3 Build CAT 5 Cable                                                                                                -         -          -
3.15.18.4 Test CAT 5 Cable                                                                                                 -         -          -
3.15.18.5 Network Configuration                                                                                            -         -          -
3.15.18.6 MIL-STD-1553A                                                                                                    A         A          -
3.15.18.7 MIL-STD-1553B                                                                                                    A         A          -
3.15.18.8 RS-232                                                                                                           -         -          -
3.15.18.9 RS-422                                                                                                           -         -          -
3.15.18.10 MIL-STD-1760                                                                                                    -         -          -

                                                            45
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                        Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                        Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level     Level     Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

3.15.18.11 Fiber Optics                                                                                                     -        B          -
3.15.18.12 Troubleshoot Data Bus                                                                                            -        -          -
3.16 USE TEST EQUIPMENT (COMMON)
3.16.1 Radar Simulator                                                                                                    2b         A          -
3.16.2 Serial Bus Analyzer                                                                                                 -         -          -
3.16.3 Transmission Line Test Set                                                                                         1b         A          -
3.16.4 Fiber Optic Test Set                                                                                              2b/b        A          -
3.16.5 Pulse Generator                                                                                                    2b         -          -
3.16.6 Network Analyzer                                                                                                    -         -          -
3.16.7 Power Meter                                                                                                        2b         A          -
3.16.8 Spectrum Analyzer                                                                                                  2b         A          -
3.16.9 Time Domain Reflect Meter (TDR)                                                                                    1b         A          -
3.16.10 ALM-288                                                                                                           2b         A          -
3.16.11 Frequency Counter                                                                                                 2b         A          -
3.16.12 Oscilloscope                                                                                                      2b         A          -
3.16.13 Multimeter                                                                                                        2b         A          -
3.16.14 Ethernet Cable Tester                                                                                              -         -          -
3.16.15 RF Signal Generator                                                                                               2b         -          -
3.16.16 Milliohmn Meter                                                                                                    -         -          -
3.16.17 Reprogramming Support Equipment
3.16.17.1 Data Access Devices                                                                                               -        -          -
3.16.17.2 Data Transfer Devices                                                                                            2b        A          -
3.17 MAINTAIN (COMMON)                                                                                                      -        -          -
3.17.1 PLM-4 Radar Simulator or Equivalent                                                                                  -        A          -
3.17.2 PYM-1 CAPRE                                                                                                          -        A          -
3.17.3 MWS Sensor Simulator                                                                                                 -        -          -
3.17.4 MWS Test Set                                                                                                         -        -          -
3.17.5 AN/ALM-288 Countermeasure                                                                                            -        A          -
        Dispenser Tester (CDT)
3.17.6 AN/ALM 178                                                                                                           -        A          -
        TR: TM 11-6625-2739-14
3.17.7 AN/USM-464A                                                                                                          -        B          -
3.17.8 AN/PLM-6B Multi-Purpose Electro-                                                                                     -        A          -
        Optical End-to-End Tester (MEON)
3.18 AIRCRAFT WIRING/ TRANSMISSION
        LINES (COMMON)
        TR: TO 1-1A-14/ TO 12P3-1-10/ TO 31-
        10-14
3.18.1 Kapton Wire                                                                                                          -        -          -
3.18.2 Multiconductor                                                                                                       -        B          -
3.18.3 Coaxial/ Triaxial/ Twinaxial                                                                                         -        B          -
3.18.4 Nuclear Hardened Cable                                                                                               -        -          -
3.18.5 Waveguides                                                                                                           -        B
3.18.6 Single Conductor                                                                                                     -        B          -
3.18.7 Rigid Coaxial                                                                                                        -        B          -
3.18.8 Fiber Optics                                                                                                         -        B          -
                                                            46
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                               Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                               Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level     Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

3.19   PERFORM WIRE MAINTENANCE
       (COMMON)
       TR: TO 1-1a-14/ TO 31-10-14
3.19.1 Stripping                                                                                                                 2b         B          -
3.19.2 Video Splicing                                                                                                           2b/b        B          -
3.19.3 Environmental Splicing                                                                                                     -         B          -
3.19.4 Bundling                                                                                                                  2b         B          -
3.19.5 Strain Relief                                                                                                             2b         B          -
3.19.6 Continuity Checks                                                                                                         2b         -          -
3.19.7 Wire Repair                                      *                                                                         -         B          -
3.19.8 Splice Fiber Optics                                                                                                        -         -          -
3.19.9 Clean Fiber Optics                                                                                                         -         -          -
3.19.10 Solder RF Connector                                                                                                     2b/b        -          -
3.19.11 Assemble / Disassemble Solderless
         Connectors
3.19.11.1 Crimp Connectors                              *                                                                       2b/b         -         -
3.19.11.2 Coaxial Connectors                                                                                                    2b/b         -         -
3.20      REMOVE AND INSTALL
NOTE: Qualification on line items 3.20.1 through
3.20.14 qualifies the individual on all similar
system components throughout this training
record unless identified separately in the specific
system or in writing by the supervisor.
3.20.1 Shock Mounted                                    *                                                                          -         -         -
3.20.2 Tray Mounted                                     *                                                                          -         -         -
3.20.3 Rack Mounted                                     *                                                                          -         -         -
3.20.4 Console Mounted                                  *                                                                         2b         -         -
3.20.5 Aircraft Surface Mounted                         *                                                                         2b         -         -
3.20.6 Clamp Mounted Components                                                                                                    -         -         -
3.20.7 Bezel Mounted Components                                                                                                    -         -         -
3.20.8 Latch Mounted Components                         *                                                                          -         -         -
3.20.9 Bulkhead Mounted                                                                                                            -         -         -
3.20.10 Equipment Mounted                               *                                                                          -         -         -
3.20.11 Minor Parts and Hardware (i.e. relay,           *                                                                          -         -         -
         switches, bulbs, circuit breakers)
3.20.12 Capacitors / Resistors / Diodes                                                                                            -         -         -
3.20.13 Terminal / Modular Blocks                                                                                                  -         -         -
3.20.14 Chassis Mounted                                                                                                            -         -         -
3.21 BIT THEORY OF OPERATION
3.21.1 Manual BIT                                                                                                                 A          -         -
3.21.2 Automatic BIT                                                                                                              A          -         -
3.22 PANORAMIC RECIEVER
3.22.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                                 -        -          -
3.22.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        B         B          -
3.22.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                                   -        -          -
3.22.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                                  2b        -          -

                                                                   47
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                        Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                        Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level     Level     Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

3.22.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                        2b         -         -
3.23 RF JAMMING TRANSMITTER SET
3.23.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                          -        -          -
3.23.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B         B          -
3.23.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            -        -          -
3.23.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                            -        -          -
3.23.5 Reprogram                                                                                                           2b        -          -
3.23.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                        2b        -          -
3.24 AN/ALE-47 CMDS
3.24.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                          -         -         -
3.24.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B          -         -
3.24.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            -         -         -
3.24.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                           2b         -         -
3.24.5 Reprogram                                                                                                           2b         -         -
3.24.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                        2b         -         -
3.25 AN/AAR-47 (V1) MISSILE WARNING
      SYSTEM
3.25.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                          -         -         -
3.25.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                  -         -         -
3.25.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            -         -         -
3.25.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                            -         -         -
3.25.5 Reprogram                                                                                                            -         -         -
3.25.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -         -         -
3.26 AN/AAR-47 (V2) MISSILE WARNING
      SYSTEM
3.26.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                        -           -         -
3.26.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                B           -         -
3.26.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                          -           -         -
3.26.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                         2b/b         -         -
3.26.5 Reprogram                                                                                                         2b/b         -         -
3.26.6 Troubleshoot                                                                                                       -           -         -
3.27 RADAR WARNING RECEIVER
3.27.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                          -         -         -
3.27.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                 B          -         -
3.27.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                            -         -         -
3.27.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                           2b         -         -
3.27.5 Reprogram                                                                                                           2b         -         -
3.28 AN/AAQ-24 (V) 13 LARGE AIRCRAFT
      INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES
      SYSTEM (LAIRCM)
3.28.1 Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                        -           -         -
3.28.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                B           -         -
3.28.3 System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                          -           -         -
3.28.4 Perform Operational Check                                                                                         2b/b         -         -
3.28.5 Reprogram                                                                                                         2b/b         -         -
3.29 DATA LINK
                                                            48
                               B-1, B-2 and B-52 GENERAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               3. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                   4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                        Indicate Training /
                                                                                                                        Information Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A         B        A         B         C          D           E           A        B        C
                                                                                                                         3 Skill   5 Skill   7 Skill
                                                                                                                         Level     Level     Level
                                               5 Level   7 Level   Tng       Tng      Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                   Start   Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course    CDC       CDC

3.29.1   Purpose and Characteristics                                                                                        -         -         -
3.29.2   Theory of Operation                                                                                                -         -         -
3.29.3   System Tie-In/Integration                                                                                          -         -         -
3.29.4   Perform Operational Check                                                                                          -         -         -




                                                            49
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

Attachment 4 E-3 Radar Training Requirements
 NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A933XXXXX, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
         representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
         general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
         the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
         identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
 NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
 NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
 NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
 NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
         not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
         Attachment is waived.
 NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
         736-7908
4.1 Airborne Warning and Control System
     General Organization Maintenance (E-3)
4.1.1 Apply External Power                                *                                                                              -         -          -
       TR: TO 1E-3A-2-1-1
4.1.2 Apply external Air Cooling                          *                                                                              -         -          -
       TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-1-2 / TO 1E-3A-
       43-2-93-3-15 / TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-22
4.1.3 Rotate Rotodome                                     *                                                                              -         -          -
4.1.4 Enter/Exit Forward/AFT lower lobe                   *                                                                              -         -          -
4.1.5 Enter/ Exit Antenna Pedestal                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.1.6 Perform In-Flight Maintenance Spares                *                                                                              -         -          -
       (IFMS) Inventory
4.1.7 Remove and Install Rotodome Interior                          *                                                                    -         -          -
       Panels
4.1.8 Radar Turn-on/Turn-off Procedures                   *                                                                              -         -          -
4.1.9 Radar Emergency Shutdown Procedures                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.1.10 Radar Antenna Fill and Bleed                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.1.11 Radar Preflight/Thruflight/Pre-Launch              *                                                                              -         -          -
        Inspection
4.1.12 High Voltage Cable Cleaning and                              *                                                                    -         -          -
        Inspection
4.1.13 Service SF-6 bottle                                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.1.14 Rotodome 7-Level FOD Inspection                              *                                                                    -         -          -
4.1.15 Transfer of radar test targets across the          *                                                                              -         -          -
        interface
4.1.16 Apply External Liquid Cooling                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2 AWACS Radar System
4.2.1 E-3 Mission Crew Compartment
4.2.1.1 Radar Control and Maintenance Console
         (RCMC)
         TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-17
4.2.1.1.1 Locate LRU's and Circuit breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.1.2 Signal flow and Functional Description          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.1.3 Isolate and Correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.1.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.1.5 Enter/Exit Console Mode                         *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                                     50
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.2.1.1.6 Mount/Dismount Disk                             *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.1.7 Reset and Recycle Control                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.1.8 Reset OPS                                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.1.9 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.1.10 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.2 Digital Cabinet (4A1)
        TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-18 / TO 1E-
        3A-43-2-93-3-19
4.2.1.2.1 Radar Interface Adapter Unit (RIAU)
4.2.1.2.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.2.1.2.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.1.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.1.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.1.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.2.2 Adaptive Signal Processor (ASP)
4.2.1.2.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.2.1.2.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.2.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.2.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.2.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.2.3 Radar Data Processor (RDP)
4.2.1.2.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.2.1.2.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.3.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.3.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.2.3.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.3 Analog Cabinet (4A2)
          TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-22
4.2.1.3.1 Synchronizer
           TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-23
4.2.1.3.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.2.1.3.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.1.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.1.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.1.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.3.2 PD Receivers
4.2.1.3.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
                                                                     51
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.2.1.3.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.2.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.2.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.2.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.3.3 BTH Receivers
4.2.1.3.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
             Description
4.2.1.3.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.3.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.3.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.3.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.3.4 Stable Local Oscillator (STALO)
4.2.1.3.4.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.4.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
             Description
4.2.1.3.4.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.4.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.4.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.4.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.3.5 Acoustical Enclosure
4.2.1.3.5.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.5.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
             Description
4.2.1.3.5.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.5.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.5.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.3.5.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.4 Maritime Cabinet (4A3) APY-2 Only
4.2.1.4.1 MSC Receiver
4.2.1.4.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
             Description
4.2.1.4.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.1.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.1.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.1.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.4.2 Digital Land Mass Blanker (DLMB)
4.2.1.4.2.1. Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers              *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
             Description
4.2.1.4.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.2.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.2.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.2.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.1.4.3 Dehydrator
                                                                     52
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.2.1.4.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.2.1.4.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.3.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.3.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.1.4.3.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2 E-3 Aft Lower Lobe
4.2.2.1 EMI Filter (3A1)
4.2.2.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.1.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.1.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.1.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.2 Transformer (3A1A3)
4.2.2.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.2.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.2.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.2.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.3 Filter (3A2)
4.2.2.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.3.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.3.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.3.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.4 Regulators (3A3, 3A4)
4.2.2.4.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.4.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.4.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.4.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.4.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.4.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.5 High Voltage Auxiliary (3A7)
4.2.2.5.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.5.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.5.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.5.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -

                                                                     53
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.2.2.5.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.5.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.6 Pre-drivers (3A8, 3A9)
4.2.2.6.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.6.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.2.6.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.6.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.6.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.6.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.7 Transmit Angle Control (3A12)
4.2.2.7.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.7.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.2.7.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.7.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.7.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.7.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.8 Drivers (3A13, 3A14)
4.2.2.8.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.8.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.2.8.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.8.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.8.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.8.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.9 Klystron Power Amplifier (KPA)
         (3A5A2, 3A6A2)
4.2.2.9.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.9.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.2.9.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.9.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.9.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.9.6 Build Up Klystron and Solenoid                            *                                                                    -         -          -
          Assembly
4.2.2.9.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.10 Floating Deck Pulser (FDP) (3A5A1A1,
          3A6A1A1)
4.2.2.10.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.10.2 Signal Flow and Functional                     *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.10.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.10.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.10.5 Operational Checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.10.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -

                                                                     54
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.2.2.11 Standby and Power Distribution (3A17)
4.2.2.11.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.11.2 Signal Flow and Functional                     *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.11.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.11.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.11.5 Operational Checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.11.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.12 Protection and Control (3A16)
4.2.2.12.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.12.2 Signal Flow and Functional                     *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.12.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.12.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.12.5 Operational Checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.12.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.13 Solenoid Power Supply (3A18)
4.2.2.13.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.13.2 Signal Flow and Functional                     *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.13.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.13.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.13.5 Operational Checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.13.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.14 ION Pump Power Supply (3A5A3,
          3A6A3)
4.2.2.14.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.14.2 Signal Flow and Functional                     *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.14.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.14.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.14.5 Operational Checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.14.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.15 RF Sample Assembly (3A15)
4.2.2.15.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.15.2 Signal Flow and Functional                     *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.15.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.15.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.15.5 Operational Checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.15.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.16 Ground Deck Pulser (3A5A1A2,
          3A6A1A2)
4.2.2.16.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.16.2 Signal Flow and Functional                     *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description

                                                                     55
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.2.2.16.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.16.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.16.5 Operational Checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.16.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.17 Low Voltage Auxiliary (3A23)
4.2.2.17.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.17.2 Signal Flow and Functional                     *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.17.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.17.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.17.5 Operational Checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.17.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.18 SF-6 System
4.2.2.18.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.18.2 Signal Flow and Functional                     *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.2.2.18.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.18.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.18.5 Operational Checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.18.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.2.19 Radar Liquid Coolant System
4.2.2.19.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.19.2 Signal Flow and Functional                     *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description
4.2.2.19.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.19.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.19.5 Operational Checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.2.19.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.3 E-3 Antenna
4.2.3.1 RF Manifold
4.2.3.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.3.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.1.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.1.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.1.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.3.2 Phase Shifter Driver Unit
4.2.3.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.3.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.2.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.2.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.2.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.3.3 Microwave Receiver
                                                                     56
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.2.3.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.3.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.3.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.3.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.3.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.3.4 Phase Shifter Control Unit
4.2.3.4.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.4.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.3.4.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.4.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.4.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.4.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.3.5 Thermal Stabilization Unit
4.2.3.5.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.5.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.3.5.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.5.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.5.6 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.5.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.3.6 Rotary Joint
4.2.3.6.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.6.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.3.6.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.6.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.6.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.6.6 Perform Rotary Joint Brush Block                          *                                                                    -         -          -
          Inspection
4.2.3.6.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.2.3.7 Waveguide
4.2.3.7.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.7.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.2.3.7.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.7.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.7.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.2.3.7.6 Transmitter Ground Radiation                              *                                                                    -         -          -
          Procedure
4.2.3.7.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3 AWACS Identification Friend or Foe (IFF)
     System
4.3.1 E-3 Mission Crew Compartment

                                                                     57
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.3.1.1 E-17 Cabinet
4.3.1.1.1 Receiver Transmitter (RT)
4.3.1.1.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.3.1.1.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.1.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.1.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.1.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.1.1.2 Radar Target Data Processor (RTDP)
4.3.1.1.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.3.1.1.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.2.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.2.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.2.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.1.1.3 Power Supply
4.3.1.1.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.3.1.1.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.3.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.3.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.3.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.1.1.4 Interrogator Computer
4.3.1.1.4.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.4.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.3.1.1.4.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.4.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.4.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.4.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.1.1.5 Transmission Line Switch
4.3.1.1.5.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.5.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Description
4.3.1.1.5.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.5.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.5.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.1.1.5.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.2 E-3 IFF Rotodome
4.3.2.1 Control
4.3.2.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
           Description

                                                                     58
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.3.2.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.1.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.1.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.1.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.2.2 Drive
4.3.2.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.3.2.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.2.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.2.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.2.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.2.3 Power Divider
4.3.2.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.3.2.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.3.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.3.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.3.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.2.4 RF Detector
4.3.2.4.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.4.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.3.2.4.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.4.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.4.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.4.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.2.5 Transmission Line Coupler
4.3.2.5.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.5.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.3.2.5.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.5.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.5.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.5.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.2.6 AWACS System M
4.3.2.6.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.6.2 Signal Flow and Functional                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Description
4.3.2.6.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction                 *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.6.4 Remove and Replace LRU's                        *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.6.5 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.2.6.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.3 AWACS Radar Calibrations/Adjustments
4.3.3.1 Transmitter Calibrations
                                                                     59
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.3.3.1.1 Solenoid Current                                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.3.1.2 Beam Voltage                                    *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.3.1.3 Collector Current                               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.3.1.4 KPA Burn In                                     *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.3.1.5 Average Power Calibration                       *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.3.1.6 TAC Peak Power                                  *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.3.1.7 TAC Curve Calibration                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.3.1.8 Phase Compensation Calibration                  *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.3.1.9 Reflected Power Calibration                     *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.3.1.10 Transmitter Peak Power Calibration             *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.3.1.11 TAC Thermal Assembly Adjustments               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.4 Bit Target Generator (BTG)
       Calibrations/Adjustments
4.3.4.1. BIT Target Generator Calibrations                *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.4.2 Path Insertion                                    *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.4.3 10db Loss Measurement                             *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.4.4 40db Loss Measurement                             *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.4.5 VCA Loss Measurement                              *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.4.6 Power Correction                                  *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.4.7 Target Power Adjustment                           *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.5 Noise Diode Calibration
4.3.5.1 Line Loss                                                                                                                        -         -          -
4.3.5.2 Noise Measurement                                                                                                                -         -          -
4.3.5.3 Noise Diode Calibration                                                                                                          -         -          -
4.3.5.4 Analog to Digital Offset Adjustment                                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.5.5 Spectrum Generator 60MHz Target                                                                                                  -         -          -
         Adjustment
4.3.5.6 BTG Target 2 Center Frequency                                                                                                    -         -          -
         Adjustment
4.3.5.7 BTG Cal - Receiver Gain Adjustments                                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.5.8 BTH IF Test and Adjustment                                                                                                       -         -          -
4.3.6 AWACS Radar Special Support
       Equipment
4.3.6.1 Mega ohmmeter                                                                                                                    -         -          -
4.3.6.2 X-Y Recorder                                                                                                                     -         -          -
4.3.6.3 Analog Receiver Test Set (RIB)                                                                                                   -         -          -
         TR: TO 33D7-17-60-1
4.3.6.4 Radar Test Set AN / UPM-155                                                                                                      -         -          -
         TR: TO 33A1-3-426-3 / TO 12P4-1A-
         122
4.3.6.5 Radar Test Set AN / APM-401                                                                                                      -         -          -
         TR: TO 33D7-36-35-1
4.3.6.6 Antenna Control Drive Test Set AN /               *                                                                              -         -          -
         APM-402
         TR: TO 33D7-47-55-1
4.3.6.7 Air Pressure Warning Alarm System                 *                                                                              -         -          -
         SDU-34
                                                                     60
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

         TR: TO 1E-3A-2-1-1
4.3.6.8 D-1000 Ion Pump Power Supply                                                                                                     -         -          -
         TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3 / TO 1E-3A-
         43-2-93-3-13 / TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3-26
4.3.6.9 Monorail Assembly                                                                                                                -         -          -
         TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
4.3.6.10 SF-6 Flow Meter                                                                                                                 -         -          -
4.3.6.11 Break Out Box                                                                                                                   -         -          -
4.3.6.12 Boroscope                                                                                                                       -         -          -
4.3.6.13 SF-6 Detection Camera                                                                                                           -         -          -
4.3.6.14 WATTS Test Box                                                                                                                  -         -          -
          TR: TO 1E-3A-2-93-4
4.3.6.15 SF-6 Ground Cart Operation                       *                                                                              -         -          -
          TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
4.3.6.16 SF-6 Transfer Pump                               *                                                                              -         -          -
4.3.6.17 Vacuum Pump                                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
4.3.6.18 Nitrogen Cart                                    *                                                                              -         -          -
          TR: TO 12P2-APY-1-2-1 / TO 35D3-6-
          33-13
4.3.6.19 FC-77 Servicing Cart                                       *                                                                    -         -          -
          TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
4.3.6.20 FC-77 Top-Off Bottle                             *                                                                              -         -          -
          TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-3
4.4 Advanced Radar Wiring
     TR: TO 00-25-234 / TO 12P2-2APY1-2-1 /
     TO 1E-3A-2-110-93-1 / TO 1E-3A-43-2-
     110-93-2 / TO 1E-3A-43-2-110-93-3
4.4.1 Wiring diagrams                                                                                                                    -         -          -
4.4.2 Wire list                                                                                                                          -         -          -
4.4.3 Perform Wire Wrapping                                                                                                              -         -          -
4.4.4 Replace Pickle Forks                                                                                                               -         -          -
4.4.5 Replace Aircraft Wiring Harnesses
4.4.5.1 Replace/Repair Radar Set Harnesses                                                                                               -         -          -
4.4.5.2 Replace/Repair IFF System Harnesses                                                                                              -         -          -
4.5 INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE (E-3)
4.5.1 Receiver-Transmitter
       TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93-5 / TO 12P4-2A-
       122
4.5.1.1 Bench Check                                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.1.2 Isolate and Repair LRU                                                                                                           -         -          -
4.5.2 Antenna Control
4.5.2.1 Bench Check                                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.2.2 Isolate and Repair LRU                                                                                                           -         -          -
4.5.3 Antenna Drive
4.5.3.1 Bench Check                                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.3.2 Isolate and Repair LRU                                                                                                           -         -          -

                                                                     61
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.5.4 Antenna Control
4.5.4.1 Bench Check                                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.4.2 Isolate and Repair LRU                                                                                                           -         -          -
4.5.5 Analog Receiver Test Set (RIB)
4.5.5.1 Bench Check                                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.5.2 Isolate and Repair Test Set                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.6 Radar Test Set AN / APM-401
4.5.6.1 Bench Check                                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.6.2 Isolate and Repair Test Set                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.7 Antenna Control Drive Test AN / APM-
       402
4.5.7.1 Bench Check                                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.7.2 Isolate and Repair Test Set                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.8 D-1000 Ion Pump Power Supply
4.5.8.1 Bench Check                                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.8.2 Isolate and Repair Test Set                                                                                                      -         -          -
4.5.9 Automatic Transmitter Test Set (ATTS)
       AN / APM-478
       TR: TO 33D7-29-85-1 / TO 33D7-44-329-
       2 / 12
4.5.9.1 Environmental Controls / Indicators                                                                                              -         -          -
4.5.9.2 Liquid Cooling Sys Operation and                                                                                                 -         -          -
          Monitoring
4.5.9.3 Emergency Shutdown                                                                                                               -         -          -
4.5.9.4 Shutoff Valves                                                                                                                   -         -          -
4.5.9.5 Cold Weather Preparation and Operation                                                                                           -         -          -
4.5.10 Sulfur Hexafluoride (SF 6)
4.5.10.1 Bottle Replacement (230lb Bottle)                                                                                               -         -          -
4.5.11 Environmental Cooling
4.5.11.1 Control Panel Operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
4.5.12 Operate Transmitter HMU AN / FPM 40
        Using ATTS AN / APM 478
4.5.12.1 Turn On                                                                                                                         -         -          -
4.5.12.2 Shutdown                                                                                                                        -         -          -
4.5.12.3 Emergency Shutdown                                                                                                              -         -          -
           TR: TO 33D7.44.329.2 / AFOSH
           127.45
4.5.12.4 RDC Simulator Panel                                                                                                             -         -          -
4.5.12.5 Operational Self Test                                                                                                           -         -          -
4.5.12.6 Interface Check                                                                                                                 -         -          -
4.5.12.7 Monitor Test                                                                                                                    -         -          -
4.5.12.8 Harmonization                                                                                                                   -         -          -
4.5.12.9 Normalization                                                                                                                   -         -          -
4.5.12.10 KPA Burn In (Automatic) and                                                                                                    -         -          -
            Documentation
4.5.12.11 KPA Burn In (Manual) and                                                                                                       -         -          -
            Documentation
                                                                     62
                                               E-3 RADAR TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

4.5.12.12 LRU Retest and Documentation                                                                                                   -         -          -
          TR: TO 33D7.44.329.12
4.5.13 Perform Power Off Maintenance
        TR: TO 33D7-44-329-2
4.5.13.1 Lock-out and Tag-out Procedures                                                                                                 -         -          -




                                                                     63
                                         E-3 EW COMPUTERS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                          4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

Attachment 5 E-3 EW COMPUTERS Training Requirements
 NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A933XXXXX, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
         representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
         general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
         the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
         identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
 NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
 NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
 NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
 NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
         not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
         Attachment is waived.
 NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
         736-7908
5.1 E-3 ON-EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
5.1.1 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
       MAINTENANCE (E-3 specific)
5.1.1.1 Apply external power                              *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.1.2 Apply external air conditioning                   *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.1.3 SDU cooling air monitor alarm operation           *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.1.4 Aircraft safe for maintenance                     *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.1.5 Use Keyboard Debugger (KBD)                       *                                                                              -         -          -
         Software
5.1.1.6 GPS Integrated Navigation System                  *                                                                              -         -          -
         (GINS) Turn On/Off
5.1.1.7 Perform Preflight Inspection                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.1.8 Pre Depot/Post Depot Inspection                                                                                                  -         -          -
5.1.1.9 Support of Interfacing Systems
5.1.1.9.1 Radar and Identify Friend or Foe (IFF)          *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.1.9.2 Tactical Digital Information Link A             *                                                                              -         -          -
           (TADIL-A/Link 11)
5.1.1.9.3 Frequency Management                                                                                                           -         -          -
5.1.1.9.4 Joint Tactical Information Distribution         *                                                                              -         -          -
           System (JTIDS)/Link 16
5.1.2 HAVE SIREN INFRARED SELF-
       DEFENSE SYSTEM (QRC 81-01)
5.1.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.2.2 Perform operation check                           *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                              *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
5.1.2.5 Use MTM for system alignment                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.3 ELECTRONIC SUPPORT MEASURES
       (AN/AYR-2)
5.1.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.3.2 Perform operation check                           *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.3.3 Load System EEPROMS                               *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.3.4 Perform ESM System Live Operation                 *                                                                              -         -          -
5.1.3.5 Inspect antenna RF Processor (ARFP)                         *                                                                    -         -          -
         radome
5.1.3.6 Isolate Malfunctions                              *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                                     64
                                         E-3 EW COMPUTERS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

5.1.3.7 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2 CORE COMPUTER VERSION 2
     ENHANCED (CCE) MAINTENANCE
5.2.1 ORGANIZATIONAL MAINTENANCE
5.2.1.1 Power On/Off Computer and Display               *                                                                              -         -          -
         System
5.2.1.2 Perform Data Destruct Procedures                *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.1.3 Perform Preflight                               *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.2 SYSTEM PROGRAMS
5.2.2.1 AIRBORNE OPERATIONAL
         COMPUTER PROGRAM (AOCP)
5.2.2.1.1 Load and operate                              *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.2.1.2 Interpret results                             *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.2.2 ELECTRONIC LOAD FUNCTION
         (ELF)
5.2.2.2.1 Load and operate                              *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.2.3 MAINTENANCE COMPUTER
         PROGRAM (MCP)
5.2.2.3.1 Load and operate data processor               *                                                                              -         -          -
           diagnostic software
5.2.2.3.2 Interpret results                             *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.2.3.3 Load and operate Control Power                *                                                                              -         -          -
           Supply (CPS) diagnostic software
5.2.2.3.4 Interpret results                             *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3 SYSTEM HARDWARE
5.2.3.1 DIGITAL COMPUTER RACK (DCR)
5.2.3.1.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
5.2.3.1.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.1.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.2 COMPUTER ARITHMETIC UNIT
          (CAU)
5.2.3.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
5.2.3.2.2 Perform operation check                       *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.2.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.3 MONOLITHIC MEMORY UNIT
         (MMU)
5.2.3.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
5.2.3.3.2 Perform operation check                       *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.4 BUBBLE MEMORY UNIT (BMU)
5.2.3.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
5.2.3.4.2 Perform operation check                       *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.4.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.5 DIGITAL MULTIPLEXER (DMX)
                                                                   65
                                         E-3 EW COMPUTERS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

5.2.3.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
5.2.3.5.2 Perform operation check                       *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.5.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.6 COMPUTER CONTROLLER (CC)
5.2.3.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
5.2.3.6.2 Perform operation check                       *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.6.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.6.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.7 OPERATOR COMPUTER CONTROL
         (OCC)
5.2.3.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
5.2.3.7.2 Perform operation check                       *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.7.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.7.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.8 DATA DISPLAY INDICATOR (DDI)
5.2.3.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
5.2.3.8.2 Perform operation check                       *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.8.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.8.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.9 ELECTRONIC TYPEWRITER
         KEYBOARD (EKT)
5.2.3.9.1 Perform operation check                       *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.9.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.10 CONTROL POWER SUPPLY (CPS)
5.2.3.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.2.3.10.2 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.10.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.10.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.11 ON-BOARD TEST MONITOR AND
          MAINTENANCE (OBTM&M)
5.2.3.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.2.3.11.2 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.11.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.11.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.12 PRINTER READER GROUP
          (PERIPHERAL RACK # 2)
5.2.3.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.2.3.12.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.12.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.13 HARD DISK SUBSYSTEM (HDS)
5.2.3.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.2.3.13.2 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.13.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.13.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.14 LINE PRINTER (LP)
                                                                   66
                                         E-3 EW COMPUTERS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

5.2.3.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.2.3.15 DATA MATRIX LINE PRINTER
5.2.3.15.1 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.15.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.16 ECI LINE PRINTER
5.2.3.16.1 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.16.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.17 ELECTRONIC COMMAND SIGNAL
          PROCESSOR (ECSP)
5.2.3.17.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.2.3.17.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.17.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting             *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.17.4 Perform In-progress Inspection                         *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.18 DISPLAY PROCESSOR (DP)
5.2.3.18.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.2.3.18.2 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.18.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.18.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.19 REFRESH CHANNEL (RC)
5.2.3.19.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.2.3.19.2 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.19.3 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.19.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.20 SITUATION DISPLAY CONSOLE
          (SDC)
5.2.3.20.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.2.3.20.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.20.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.20.4 Perform In-progress Inspection                         *                                                                    -         -          -
5.2.3.21 COMMON LARGE AREA DISPLAY
          SET (CLADS)
5.2.3.21.1 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.21.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.22 CATEGORY FEATURE SELECT
          PANEL
5.2.3.22.1 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.22.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.23 FUNCTION SELECT PANEL
5.2.3.23.1 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.23.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.24 ALARM/DISPLAY PANEL
5.2.3.24.1 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.24.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.25 ALPHANUMERIC ENTRY DEVICE
5.2.3.25.1 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.25.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                                   67
                                         E-3 EW COMPUTERS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

5.2.3.26 TRACKBALL
5.2.3.26.1 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.26.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.27 A10 LOW VOLTAGE POWER
          SUPPLY
5.2.3.27.1 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.27.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.28 A12 CIRCUIT CARDS
5.2.3.28.1 Perform operation check                      *                                                                              -         -          -
5.2.3.28.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
5.3 E-3 OFF-EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
5.3.1 Repair ESM LRUs                                                                                                                  -         -          -
5.3.2 RADIOMETER TEST SET
5.3.2.1 Operate                                                                                                                        -         -          -
5.3.2.2 Calibrate                                                                                                                      -         -          -
5.3.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                           -         -          -
5.3.3 PURGE/FILL TEST SET
5.3.3.1 Operate                                                                                                                        -         -          -
5.3.4 RADIOMETER CALIBRATOR TEST
       SET
5.3.4.1 Operate                                                                                                                        -         -          -
5.3.4.2 Calibrate                                                                                                                      -         -          -
5.3.4.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                           -         -          -
5.3.5 QRC 81-01 MULTIFUNCTION TEST
       METER (MTM)
5.3.5.1 Performance Verification Test                                                                                                  -         -          -
5.3.5.2 Alignment of R and R                                                                                                           -         -          -
5.3.5.3 Calibrate the MTM                                                                                                              -         -          -
5.3.5.4 J- Interface Unit (IYU)                                                                                                        -         -          -
5.3.5.5 CP- Computer Processor                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.3.5.6 SA- Switch Filter (IFS)                                                                                                        -         -          -
5.3.5.7 PP- Storage Power Supply (Battery Box)                                                                                         -         -          -
5.3.5.8 MX- Radio Frequency Power Divider                                                                                              -         -          -
         (LODU)
5.3.5.9 MM- Memory Unit (AFROM)                                                                                                        -         -          -
5.3.5.10 PP- Power Supply                                                                                                              -         -          -
5.3.5.11 O- Frequency Synthesizer                                                                                                      -         -          -
5.3.5.12 Interface Processor (IFP)                                                                                                     -         -          -
5.3.6 REMOVE, INSTALL AND REPAIR
       SRUs SUBASSEMBLIES AND
       COMPONENTS
5.3.6.1 J- Interface Unit (IYU)                                                                                                        -         -          -
5.3.6.2 CP- Computer Processor                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.3.6.3 SA- Switch Filter (IFS)                                                                                                        -         -          -
5.3.6.4 PP- Storage Power Supply (Battery Box)                                                                                         -         -          -
5.3.6.5 MX- Radio Frequency Power Divider                                                                                              -         -          -

                                                                   68
                                         E-3 EW COMPUTERS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

         (LODU)
5.3.6.6 PP- Power Supply                                                                                                               -         -          -
5.3.6.7 CU- Interface Processor (IFP)                                                                                                  -         -          -
5.3.6.8 O- Frequency Synthesizer                                                                                                       -         -          -
5.3.6.9 CU- Interface Processor (IFP)                                                                                                  -         -          -
5.3.6.10 PERFORM VISUAL INSPECTION                                                                                                     -         -          -
          OF ESM SRUs
5.3.7 LINE PRINTER INTERMEDIATE
        MAINTENCE
5.3.7.1 LINE PRINTER (Miltope Impact)
5.3.7.1.1 Perform alignments on line printer                                                                                           -         -          -
5.3.7.1.2 Disassemble and assemble line printer                                                                                        -         -          -
5.3.7.1.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.3.7.2 LINE PRINTER RP-/A (ECI Thermal)
5.3.7.2.1 Perform alignments on line printer                                                                                           -         -          -
5.3.7.2.2 Disassemble and assemble line printer                                                                                        -         -          -
5.3.7.2.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.3.7.3 INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE
         ON DDI
5.3.7.3.1 Perform alignments                                                                                                           -         -          -
5.3.7.3.2 Disassemble and assemble                                                                                                     -         -          -
5.3.7.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.3.7.3.4 Perform In-progress Inspection                                                                                               -         -          -
5.3.8 INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE ON
       SDC SUBASSEMBLIES AND/OR
       COMPONENTS
5.3.8.1 Repair Category Feature Select panel                                                                                           -         -          -
5.3.8.2 Repair Function Select panel                                                                                                   -         -          -
5.3.8.3 Repair Alarm/Display (AD) panel                                                                                                -         -          -
5.3.8.4 Repair Alphanumeric Entry Device                                                                                               -         -          -
         (AED) panel
5.3.8.5 Repair Trackball assembly                                                                                                      -         -          -
5.3.8.6 Repair Electronic Typewriter Keyboard                                                                                          -         -          -
         (ETK)
5.3.8.7 Repair Operator Computer Control                                                                                               -         -          -
         (OCC)
5.3.9 INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE ON
       ECSP SUBASSEMBLIES AND/OR
       COMPONENTS
5.3.9.1 Repair EMI Filter                                                                                                              -         -          -
5.3.9.2 Repair Refresh Channel                                                                                                         -         -          -
5.3.9.3 Repair DP                                                                                                                      -         -          -
5.3.10 INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE ON
         DCR SUBASSEMBLIES AND/OR
         COMPONENTS
5.3.10.1 Repair DMX                                                                                                                    -         -          -
5.3.10.2 Repair CAU                                                                                                                    -         -          -
                                                                   69
                                         E-3 EW COMPUTERS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

5.3.10.3 Repair MMU                                                                                                                    -         -          -
5.3.10.4 Repair CC                                                                                                                     -         -          -
5.3.10.5 Repair BMU                                                                                                                    -         -          -
5.3.10.6 Repair CPS                                                                                                                    -         -          -
5.3.10.7 Repair CPS Control Panel                                                                                                      -         -          -
5.3.10.8 Repair SDU                                                                                                                    -         -          -
5.3.11 Data Display Training Set (DDTS)
        TR: TO 1E-3A-43-2-93 Series TO
5.3.11.1 Recognize and Identify DDTS                                                                                                   -         -          -
         Equipment
         TR: TO 33D7-17-60-1
5.3.11.2 Initialization of DDTS                                                                                                        -         -          -
         TR: TO 33A1-3-426-3 / TO 12P4-1A-
         122
5.3.11.3 Shutdown of DDTS                                                                                                              -         -          -
         TR: TO 33D7-36-35-1
5.3.11.4 Emergency Shutdown of DDTS                                                                                                    -         -          -
         TR: TO 33D7-47-55-1
5.3.12 SPECIAL PURPOSE SUPPORT
        EQUIPMENT OPERATION
5.3.12.1 TV PATTERN GENERATOR (TVPG)                                                                                                   -         -          -
5.3.12.2 ECI LINE PRINTER TEST SET                                                                                                     -         -          -




                                                                   70
                                                  E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                       2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

Attachment 6 E-8 Training Requirements
 NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A933XXXXX, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
         representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
         general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
         the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
         identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
 NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
 NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
 NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
 NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
         not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
         Attachment is waived.
 NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
         736-7908
6.1 GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL
     MAINTENANCE (E-8)
     TR: PHOENIX / TO 1E-8C-12
6.1.1 Use PHOENIX                                         *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.2 Apply External Power                                *                                                                              -         -          -
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12 / TO 0500 Series
6.1.3 Apply External Cooling                              *                                                                              -         -          -
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12 / TO 2100 Series
6.1.4 Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar
       System (JSTARS) Surveillance System
       TR: TO 1E-8C-12 / TO 9900 Series
6.1.4.1 JSTARS Surveillance System                                                                                                       -         -          -
6.1.4.2 Data Processing Subsystem
6.1.4.2.1 Central Computer (CC)
6.1.4.2.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.2.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.1.4 Remove and Replace                            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.1.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.1.6 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.1.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.2 Central Computer-Mass Storage
           Device (CCMSD)
6.1.4.2.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers               *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.2.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.2.4 Remove and Replace                            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.2.5 Operational Checkout                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.2.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.3 Removable Memory Module (RMM)
6.1.4.2.3.1 Locate LRU                                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.2.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction               *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                                     71
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

6.1.4.2.3.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.3.5 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.3.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                                 -         -          -
6.1.4.2.4 Central Computer Virtual Memory
Europa (CCVME)
6.1.4.2.4.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.4.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.2.4.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.4.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.4.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.4.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.4.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.5 LAN HUB (GIGASWITCH)
6.1.4.2.5.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.5.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.2.5.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.5.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.5.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.5.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.5.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.6 LAN Bridge
6.1.4.2.6.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.6.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.2.6.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.6.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.6.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.6.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.6.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.7 Serial Data hub
6.1.4.2.7.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.7.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.2.7.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.7.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.7.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.7.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.7.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.8 Fiber Optic Patch Panel (Fwd/Aft)
6.1.4.2.8.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.8.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.2.8.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.8.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -

                                                                 72
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

6.1.4.2.8.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.8.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.8.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.9 Data Interfaces (LANS/Buses)
6.1.4.2.9.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.9.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.2.9.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.9.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.9.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.9.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.9.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.10 PIC Junction Box
6.1.4.2.10.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.10.2 Signal Flow and Functional               *                                                                              -         -          -
             Operation
6.1.4.2.10.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.10.4 Remove and Replace                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.10.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                 *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.10.6 Operational Checkout                     *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.10.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                           *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.11 STP Junction Box
6.1.4.2.11.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.11.2 Signal Flow and Functional               *                                                                              -         -          -
             Operation
6.1.4.2.11.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.11.4 Remove and Replace                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.11.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                 *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.11.6 Operational Checkout                     *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.11.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                           *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.12 SM&C Junction Box
6.1.4.2.12.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.12.2 Signal Flow and Functional               *                                                                              -         -          -
             Operation
6.1.4.2.12.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.12.4 Remove and Replace                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.12.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                 *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.12.6 Operational Checkout                     *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.12.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                           *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.13 Prime Mission Equipment (PME)
Control Panel
6.1.4.2.13.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.13.2 Signal Flow and Functional               *                                                                              -         -          -
             Operation
6.1.4.2.13.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.13.4 Remove and Replace                       *                                                                              -         -          -

                                                                 73
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

6.1.4.2.13.5 Operational Checkout                     *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.13.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                           *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.2.14 Data Couplers
6.1.4.2.14.1 Locate LRU                               *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.14.2 Signal Flow and Functional               *                                                                              -         -          -
             Operation
6.1.4.2.14.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.14.4 Remove and Replace                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.14.5 Operational Checkout                     *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.2.14.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                           *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.3 Data Display Subsystem
6.1.4.3.1 Display Unit (DU)
6.1.4.3.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.3.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.1.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.1.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.1.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.1.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.3.2 Operator Work Station Data Processor
(OWS-DP)
6.1.4.3.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.3.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.2.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.2.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.2.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.2.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.3.3 Operator Work Station Mass Stotage
Device (OWS-MSD)
6.1.4.3.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.3.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.3.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.3.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.3.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.3.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.3.4 Operator Work Station Keyboard
6.1.4.3.4.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.4.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.3.4.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.4.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -

                                                                 74
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

6.1.4.3.4.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.4.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.4.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.3.5 Operator Work Station Removable
Memory Module (RMM)
6.1.4.3.5.1 Locate LRU                                *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.5.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.3.5.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.5.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.5.5 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.3.5.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.4 Data Recording Subsystem
6.1.4.4.1 Laser Printer (Black & White)
6.1.4.4.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.4.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.1.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.1.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.1.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.1.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.4.2 Laser Printer (Color)
6.1.4.4.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.4.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.2.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.2.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.2.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.2.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.4.3 Redundant Array of Independent Disks
Mass Storage Device (RAID MSD/9-Bay @
OWS#2)
6.1.4.4.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.4.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.3.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.3.5 Remove and Replace RMMs                   *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.3.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.4.3.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5 Radar Subsystem
6.1.4.5.1 Radar Control Unit (RCU)
6.1.4.5.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -

                                                                 75
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

            Operation
6.1.4.5.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.1.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.1.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.1.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.1.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5.2 Exciter (XCTR)
6.1.4.5.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.5.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.2.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.2.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.2.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.2.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5.3 High Powered Combiner (HPC)
6.1.4.5.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.5.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.3.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.3.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.3.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.3.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5.4 Transmitter (XMTR)
6.1.4.5.4.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.4.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.5.4.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.4.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.4.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.4.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.4.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5.5 Receiver Analog to Digital (RAD)
6.1.4.5.5.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.5.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
6.1.4.5.5.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.5.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.5.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.5.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.5.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5.6 Antenna Servo Electronics (ASE)
6.1.4.5.6.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.6.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
            Operation
                                                                 76
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

6.1.4.5.6.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.6.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.6.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.6.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.6.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5.7 Radar Airborne Signal Processor
           (RASP)
6.1.4.5.7.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.7.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
             Operation
6.1.4.5.7.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.7.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.7.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.7.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.7.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5.8 Redundant Array of Independent Disks
(RASP RAID)
6.1.4.5.8.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.8.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
             Operation
6.1.4.5.8.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.8.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.8.5 Remove and Replace RMMs                   *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.8.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.8.7 Perform striping procedure                *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.8.8 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5.9 Waveguide assemblies
6.1.4.5.9.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.9.2 Signal Flow and Functional                *                                                                              -         -          -
             Operation
6.1.4.5.9.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.9.4 Remove and Replace                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.9.5 Remove and Replace SRU's (pressure        *                                                                              -         -          -
             window/covers)
6.1.4.5.9.6 Operational Checkout                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.9.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                            *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5.10 Inertial Measurement Unit - Data
            Processor (IMU-DP)
6.1.4.5.10.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.10.2 Signal Flow and Functional               *                                                                              -         -          -
              Operation
6.1.4.5.10.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.10.4 Remove and Replace LRUs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.10.5 Operational Checkout                     *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.10.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                           *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.4.5.11 Nitrogen Storage Bottle

                                                                 77
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

6.1.4.5.11.1  Locate LRU and Gauges                   *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.11.2  Interpret Gauge Readings                *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.11.3  Service                                 *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.11.4  Remove and Replace                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.11.5  Remove and Replace Supply lines /       *                                                                              -         -          -
              Filter
6.1.4.5.11.6 Isolate and correct Malfunction          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.11.7 Operational / Leak Checkout              *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.12 Dehydrator Assembly
6.1.4.5.12.1 Locate LRU                               *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.12.2 Evaluate Condition of Crystals           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.12.3 Remove and Replace                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.12.4 Isolate and correct Malfunction          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.4.5.12.5 Operational / Leak Checkout              *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5 Antenna Group
6.1.5.1 Antenna
6.1.5.1.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.1.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.1.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.1.4 Remove and Replace                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.1.5 Remove and Replace Flex Cabling             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.1.6 Operational Checkout                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.1.7 Install / Remove Cover Set                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.1.8 Surveillance Antenna                        *                                                                              -         -          -
           Packing/Unpacking
6.1.5.1.9 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.2 RF/IF Distribution Plate Assembly
6.1.5.2.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.2.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.2.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.2.4 Remove and Replace                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.2.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.2.6 Operational Checkout                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.2.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.3 Receiver Channel Assembly (Down
        Converter)
6.1.5.3.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.3.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.3.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.3.4 Remove and Replace                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.3.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.3.6 Operational Checkout                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.3.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.4 Post Regulator Circuit Card Assembly
6.1.5.4.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.4.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation        *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                                 78
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

6.1.5.4.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.4.4 Remove and Replace                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.4.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.4.6 Operational Checkout                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.4.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.5 Phase Shifter Interface Module (PIM)
6.1.5.5.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.5.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.5.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.5.4 Remove and Replace                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.5.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.5.6 Operational Checkout                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.5.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.6 Phase Shifter Circuit Card Assembly
6.1.5.6.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.6.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.6.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.6.4 Remove and Replace                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.6.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.6.6 Operational Checkout                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.6.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.7 Phase Shifter Delay Lines
6.1.5.7.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.7.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.7.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.7.4 Remove and Replace                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.7.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.7.6 Operational Checkout                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.7.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.8 Circulator Assembly
6.1.5.8.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.8.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.8.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.8.4 Remove and Replace                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.8.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.8.6 Operational Checkout                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.8.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.9 RF Rotary Joint Assembly
6.1.5.9.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.9.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.9.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.9.4 Remove and Replace                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.9.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.9.6 Operational Checkout                        *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.9.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -

                                                                 79
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

6.1.5.10 Waveguide Switch
6.1.5.10.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.10.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.10.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.10.4 Remove and Replace                         *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.10.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                   *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.10.6 Operational Checkout                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.10.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                             *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.11 Waveguide Assemblies
6.1.5.11.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.11.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.11.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.11.4 Remove and Replace                         *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.11.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                   *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.11.6 Operational Checkout                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.11.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                             *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.12 Antenna Interface Module Control
          Processor (CP/AIM)
6.1.5.12.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.12.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.12.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.12.4 Remove and Replace                         *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.12.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                   *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.12.6 Operational Checkout                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.12.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                             *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.13 Inertial Measurement Unit - Electronics
          Assembly/Sensor Assembly (IMU-
          EA/SA)
6.1.5.13.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.13.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.13.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.13.4 Remove and Replace                         *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.13.5 Operational Checkout                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.13.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                             *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.14 Encoder Assembly
6.1.5.14.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.14.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.14.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.14.4 Remove and Replace                         *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.14.5 Perform Alignment Procedure                *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.14.6 Operational Checkout                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.14.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                             *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.15 Rotary Electromechanical Actuator
          Assembly (B1, B2)
6.1.5.15.1 Locate LRU and Circuit Breakers            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.15.2 Signal Flow and Functional Operation       *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                                 80
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

6.1.5.15.3 Isolate and correct Malfunction            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.15.4 Remove and Replace                         *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.15.5 Remove and Replace SRU's                   *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.15.6 Operational Checkout                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.15.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                             *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.16 Radome & Fairings
6.1.5.16.1 Radome
6.1.5.16.1.1 Raise Aircraft Struts                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.16.1.2 Radome In-Progress Inspection                      *                                                                    -         -          -
              (IPI)
6.1.5.16.1.3 Open and Close Radome                    *                                                                              -         -          -
              (Electrically)
6.1.5.16.1.4 Open and Close Radome                    *                                                                              -         -          -
              (Manually)
6.1.5.16.1.5 Remove and Replace                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.16.1.6 Forward/Aft Radome Manual Drive          *                                                                              -         -          -
              Flexible Shaft
6.1.5.16.1.7 Forward/Aft Radome Motor Driven          *                                                                              -         -          -
              Flexible Shaft
6.1.5.16.1.8 Remove and Replace Flexible Drive        *                                                                              -         -          -
              Motor
6.1.5.16.1.9 Operational Checkout                     *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.16.1.10 Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.5.16.2 Fairings
6.1.5.16.2.1 Open/Close Forward Fairing               *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.16.2.2 Open/Close Aft Fairing                   *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.5.16.2.3 Remove and Replace Aft Fairing           *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6 Operate Surveillance System
6.1.6.1 Initialize & Shutdown Systems
6.1.6.1.1 Data Processing Subsystem                   *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.1.2 Data Display Subsystem                      *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.1.3 Radar Subsystem                             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.2 Initiate Testing and Interpret Results
6.1.6.2.1 Operational Readiness Test (ORT)            *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.2.2 On-Line Testing (Signal Path Testing-       *                                                                              -         -          -
           SPT)
6.1.6.2.3 On-Line Testing (Performance                *                                                                              -         -          -
           Monitoring Background testing-PM
           Back)
6.1.6.2.4 Diagnostics (RSE / RSG / RCU /              *                                                                              -         -          -
           RASP)
6.1.6.2.5 Diagnostics (CC / OWS-DP)                   *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.2.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.6.3 Monitor & Control System Operation
6.1.6.3.1 RCU Monitor                                 *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.3.2 PM Background Monitor                       *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.3.3 OCO Task Monitor                            *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                                 81
                                               E-8 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

6.1.6.3.4 Configure System for Use                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.3.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.6.4 Radar Service Requests (RSRs)
6.1.6.4.1 Radar Reference Coverage Area               *                                                                              -         -          -
          (RRCA)
6.1.6.4.2 Ground Reference Coverage Area              *                                                                              -         -          -
          (GRCA)
6.1.6.4.3 Sector Search (SS)                          *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.4.4 Attack Control / Attack Planning (AC /      *                                                                              -         -          -
          AP)
6.1.6.4.5 Antenna Pattern                             *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.4.6 Sythetic Aperature Radar (SAR)              *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.4.7 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
6.1.6.5 Use Special Purpose Support Equipment
6.1.6.5.1 Antenna Handling Unit                                                                                                      -         -          -
6.1.6.5.2 Antenna Lifting Beam                                                                                                       -         -          -
6.1.6.5.3 Antenna Stanchion                                                                                                          -         -          -
6.1.6.5.4 Antenna Array Cover Set                     *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.5.5 Monorail and Handling Sling                 *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.5.6 Nitrogen Cart                               *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.5.7 Air Conditioning Equipment (ACE)            *                                                                              -         -          -
          Cart
6.1.6.5.8 Trielectron                                 *                                                                              -         -          -
6.1.6.5.9 Accomplish Routine Maintenance on           *                                                                              -         -          -
          Support Equipment
6.2 ORGANIZATIONAL MAINTENANCE
     (JSTARS) SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM (E-
     8)
6.2.1 Replace Aircraft Wiring Harnesses
6.2.1.1 Data Processing Subsystem                                                                                                    -         -          -
6.2.1.2 Data Display Subsystem                                                                                                       -         -          -
6.2.1.3 Radar Subsystem                                                                                                              -         -          -
6.2.2 Memory Load and Verify /
        Declassification Procedures
6.2.2.1 Operation Of Memory Load / Verify
         (MLV) Utility
6.2.2.1.1 Radar Sensor Embedded (RSE) MLV             *                                                                              -         -          -
          Utility
6.2.2.1.2 Radar Control Unit (RCU) MLV                *                                                                              -         -          -
          Utility
6.2.2.1.3 RASP MLV                                    *                                                                              -         -          -
6.2.3 Declassification Procedures
6.2.3.1 RSE OPS-113a                                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.2.3.2 RCU OPS-114a                                  *                                                                              -         -          -
6.2.3.3 RASP OPS-199a                                 *                                                                              -         -          -
6.2.3.4 General Equipment OPS-118a                    *                                                                              -         -          -


                                                                 82
                                                RC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                      2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

Attachment 5 RC-135 Training Requirements
 NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A933XXXXX, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
         representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
         general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
         the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
         identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
 NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
 NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
 NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
 NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
         not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
         Attachment is waived.
 NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
         736-7908
7.1 CORE SYSTEMS
     TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
     2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.1.1 RC-135 System Familiarization
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.1.1.1 Rack Locations                                                                                                                   -         -          -
7.1.1.2 Crew Positions                                                                                                                   -         -          -
7.1.1.3 Mission System Power-up                           *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.1.4 Apply External Power                              *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.1.5 Ensure Aircraft Is Safe For Maintenance           *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.1.6 Apply External Cooling                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.2 KVM System
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.1.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.2.2 Operational Checkout                              *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.2.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                    *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.2.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.2.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                    *                                                                    -         -          -
7.1.3 Digital Data Storage
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.1.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.3.2 Operational Checkout                              *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.3.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                    *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.3.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.3.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                    *                                                                    -         -          -
7.1.4 Digital Data Distribution
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.1.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.4.2 Operational Checkout                              *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.4.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                    *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.4.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.4.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                    *                                                                    -         -          -
                                                                     83
                                               RC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

7.1.5 Operator Work Station (OWS)
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)- 0925-SERIES
7.1.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.1.5.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.5.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.5.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.5.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
7.1.6 Maintenance Test Functions
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.1.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.1.6.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.6.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.6.4 Perform Test Equipment Operations               *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.6.5 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                *                                                                              -         -          -
7.1.6.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
7.2 BASIC MISSION SYSTEMS
     TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
     2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.2.1 Receiver Systems
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.2.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.2.1.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.1.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.1.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.1.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
7.2.2 RF Distribution
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.2.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.2.2.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.2.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.2.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                          *                                                                    -         -          -
7.2.3 Audio Distribution
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.2.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.2.3.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.3.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.3.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                          *                                                                    -         -          -
7.2.4 Video Distribution
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.2.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.2.4.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -

                                                                   84
                                               RC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

7.2.4.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.4.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.4.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
7.2.5 IF Distribution
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.2.5.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.2.5.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.5.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.5.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.5.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
7.2.6 Manual ELINT Systems
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.2.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.2.6.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.6.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.6.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                *                                                                              -         -          -
7.2.6.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
7.3 ADVANCED MISSION SYSTEMS
     TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
     2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.3.1 DF Systems
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.3.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.3.1.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.3.1.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.3.1.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                          *                                                                    -         -          -
7.3.2 Special Signals Systems
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.3.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.3.2.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.3.2.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.3.2.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                          *                                                                    -         -          -
7.3.3 QRC Systems
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.3.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.3.3.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.3.3.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.3.3.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                          *                                                                    -         -          -
7.4 COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
     TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
     2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.4.1 Intercommunication System

                                                                   85
                                               RC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.4.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.4.1.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.4.1.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.4.1.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                *                                                                              -         -          -
7.4.1.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
7.4.2 UHF/VHF Communication Systems
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.4.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.4.2.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.4.2.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.4.2.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                *                                                                              -         -          -
7.4.2.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
7.4.3 Cryptological Systems
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.4.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.4.3.2 Operational Checkout                            *                                                                              -         -          -
7.4.3.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                  *                                                                              -         -          -
7.4.3.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                *                                                                              -         -          -
7.4.3.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
7.4.4 Data Link Systems
       TR: ETM-RC135V/W-2 / ETM-RC-135U-
       2A ES (2000/2001)-0925-SERIES
7.4.4.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
7.4.4.2 Operational Checkout                                                                                                           -         -          -
7.4.4.3 Locate installed LRUs and C/Bs                                                                                                 -         -          -
7.4.4.4 Isolate and Correct Malfunctions                                                                                               -         -          -
7.4.4.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                  *                                                                    -         -          -




                                                                   86
                                                  B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                       2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

Attachment 8 B-1 Training Requirements
 NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A933XXXXX, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
         representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
         general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
         the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
         identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
 NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
 NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
 NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
 NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
         not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
         Attachment is waived.
 NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
         736-7908
8.1 GENERAL ORGANIZATION
     MAINTENANCE (B-1)
     TR: TO 1B-2-00GV-00-1
8.1.1 Operate auxiliary power units (APUs)                                                                                               -         -          -
8.1.2 Apply external liquid coolant                       *                                                                              -         -          -
8.1.3 Ensure aircraft safe for maintenance                *                                                                              -         -          -
8.1.4 Apply Hydraulic Power                                                                                                              -         -          -
8.1.5 Operate Flaps                                                                                                                      -         -          -
8.1.6 Apply external power                                *                                                                              -         -          -
8.2 ON-AIRCRAFT TEST SYSTEMS (B-1)
8.2.1 Central Integrated Test System (CITS)
8.2.1.1 Purpose
                                                                                                                                         -         -          -
         TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-46GS-00-1
8.2.1.2 Interface with Defensive Avionics                 *
         Systems (DAS)
                                                                                                                                         -         -          -
         TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2- 46GS-00- 1, -
         93GS-00-1, -2
8.2.1.3 Use Parameter Monitor Codes for                   *
         systems monitoring/fault isolation                                                                                              -         -          -
         TR: TR: System GS-00-1, GS-00- 2
8.2.1.4 Use CITS data snapshots                           *
                                                                                                                                         -         -          -
         TR: TR: 1B-1B-2-40GS-00-1
8.2.1.5 Use CITS Deployable Diagnostic System             *                                                                              -         -          -
8.2.1.6 Use aircraft STIM codes (PC Ops)                  *                                                                              -         -          -
8.3 ELECTRICAL MULTIPLEXING SYSTEM
     (EMUX) (B-1)
8.3.1 Purpose
                                                                                                                                         -         -          -
       TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-92GS-00-1
8.3.2 Interface with DAS
                                                                                                                                         -         -          -
       TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-92GS-00-1, -2
8.4 AVIONICS CONTROL UNIT COMPLEX
     (ACUC) (B-1)
8.4.1 Purpose
                                                                                                                                         -         -          -
       TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-92GS-00-1
8.4.2 Interface with DAS Systems
                                                                                                                                         -         -          -
       TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-92GS-00-1, -2, -3
8.4.3 Load and Log off ACUC                               *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                                     87
                                               B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

       TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-34JG-60-2
8.4.4 Perform data erase                              *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
       TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-34JG-60-2
8.4.5 Use FH Page                                     *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
       TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-93GS-00-2
8.5 DEFENSIVE SYSTEMS
     ORGANIZATIONAL LEVEL
     MAINTENANCE (B-1)
8.5.1 Functional operation of AN/ALQ-161
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
       TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93GS-00-1, -2, -3
8.5.2 Perform Waveguide Pressurization Check          *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.3 End-to-end check of AN/ALQ- 161
       TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93-8-1
8.5.3.1 Enhanced Automated Special Test                         *
         Equipment and Hooded Antenna Test
         System                                                                                                                      -         -          -
         TR: TR: TOs 33D7-13-205-1, and
         33D7-35-64-1
8.5.3.2 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
8.5.3.3 Perform EASTE Cart Calibration                          *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.4 Perform EASTE Cart Maintenance                          *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5 Perform functional checkouts
8.5.3.5.1 Parameter Encoder                                     *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.2 LEES Sensitivity                                      *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.3 Wide Open Sensitivity                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.4 Reject YIG Filter                                     *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.5 Nose Detect                                           *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.6 PD/CW Spiral Search                                   *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.7 Antenna Direction of Arrival                          *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.8 RF Signal Management                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.9 NEAJAM                                                *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.10 Transmitter Maximum Power                            *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.11 Beamsteering                                         *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.12 Repeater                                             *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.13 1122 Function                                        *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.3.5.14 Tail Warning Function                                *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.4 Defensive Management Subsystem
8.5.4.1 Theory of Operation
         TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93GS-00- 1, -2, -                                                                                       -         -          -
         3
8.5.4.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *
         TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93-8-1; 1B-1B-2-
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
         93GS-00-1, -2, -3; -93WD-00-1; and
         CITS Parameter File
8.5.4.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.4.4 Perform Ground Readiness Test (GRT)
TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-1
8.5.4.4.1 Defensive System Operator (DSO)             *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                                 88
                                               B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

          track handle
8.5.4.4.2 Radio Frequency/                            *
          Surveillance/Electronic                                                                                                    -         -          -
          Countermeasures (RFS/ECM) panel
8.5.4.4.3 Defensive System Operator (DSO)             *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
          Power Panel
8.5.4.4.4 Defensive System Operator (DSO)             *
          Display Electronics Unit/Multifunction                                                                                     -         -          -
          Display (DEU/MFD)
8.5.4.4.5 Graphics Generator/Electronic Display       *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
          Unit (GG/EDU) #1
8.5.4.4.6 Graphics Generator/Electronic Display       *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
          Unit (GG/EDU) #2
8.5.4.4.7 Defensive System Operator Integrated        *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
          Keyboard (DSO IKB)
8.5.4.4.8 Control and Display (C and D) power         *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
          supply
8.5.4.4.9 Left/right/aft sector power supply          *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
          initialization
8.5.4.5 Isolate Malfunctions                          *
         TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-40JG-93- 1; -
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
         93GS-00-1, -2; -93WD- 00-1; -93GS-
         00-3
8.5.4.6 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.4.7 Remove and Install LRUs
8.5.4.7.1 Receiver threshold control (RTC)            *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.4.7.2 PACC transformer                                      *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.4.7.3 Advanced Tracking Unit (ATU)                *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.4.7.4 Control Interface Unit (CIU)                *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.4.7.5 Jammer Logic A (JLA)                        *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.4.7.6 Jammer Logic B (JLB)                        *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.5 Detection Subsystem
8.5.5.1 Theory of Operation
         TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93GS-00- 1, -2, -                                                                                       -         -          -
         3
8.5.5.2 Perform Ground Readiness Test (GRT)
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
         TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-1
8.5.5.3 Isolate Malfunctions                          *
         TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93-8-1; 1B-1B-2-
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
         93GS-00-1, -2, -3; -93WD-00-1; and
         CITS Parameter File
8.5.5.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.5.5 Remove and Install LRUs
         TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93JG-40-1, -2
8.5.5.5.1 Directional Finding Encoder                 *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.5.5.2 Encoder                                     *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.5.5.3 Bands 4-8 receiver                          *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.5.5.4 Frequency channelizer                       *                                                                              -         -          -

                                                                 89
                                               B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level      Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

8.5.5.5.5 Bands 6, 7 and 8 aft antenna directional     *
                                                                                                                                      -         -          -
          receiver
8.5.5.5.6 Interferometer receiver                      *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6 Active subsystem
8.5.6.1 Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                                      -         -          -
         TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93GS-00-1, -2, -3
8.5.6.2 Perform NEAJAM check                           *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.3 Perform Waveform Generator Data Load           *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *
         TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93-8-1; 1B-1B-2-
                                                                                                                                      -         -          -
         93GS-00-1, -2, -3; -93WD-00-1; and
         CITS Parameter File
8.5.6.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                         *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.6.6 Perform Ground Readiness Test (GRT)
TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-1
8.5.6.6.1 Band 4 forward/aft transmitter                                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.6.2 Band 5 forward/aft transmitter                                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.6.3 Band 6 left/right/aft transmitter                                                                                           -         -          -
8.5.6.6.4 Band 7 left/right/aft transmitter                                                                                           -         -          -
8.5.6.6.5 Band 8 left/right/aft transmitter                                                                                           -         -          -
8.5.6.7 Remove and Install LRUs
8.5.6.7.1 Band 6 forward transmitter antenna           *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.2 Band 6 aft transmitter antenna               *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.3 Band 7 left forward transmitter antenna      *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.4 Band 7 function 1122 fwd antenna             *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.5 Band 7 function 1122 aft antenna             *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.6 Band 7 function 1122 switch                  *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.7 Band 7 function 1122 sector select           *
                                                                                                                                      -         -          -
          switch
8.5.6.7.8 Band 7 waveguide                             *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.9 Band 8 forward transmitter antenna           *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.10 Band 8 function 1122 fwd antenna            *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.11 Band 8 function 1122 aft antenna            *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.12 Band 8 RF source                            *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.6.7.13 Band 8 wave guide                           *
8.5.7 Passive subsystem
8.5.7.1 Theory of Operation
         TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93GS-00- 1, -2, -                                                                                        -         -          -
         3
8.5.7.2 Perform Ground Readiness Test (GRT)
                                                                                                                                      -         -          -
         TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-1
8.5.7.3 Perform fire pulse checkout                    *
                                                                                                                                      -         -          -
         TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93JG-30-1
8.5.7.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *
         TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93-8-1; 1B-1B-2-
                                                                                                                                      -         -          -
         93GS-00-1, -2, -3; -93WD-00-1; and
         CITS Parameter File

                                                                  90
                                               B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

8.5.7.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.7.6 Remove and Install LRUs
          TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93JG-30-1
8.5.7.6.1 EXCM controller                             *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.7.6.2 EXCM safety switch                                    *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.8 Warning subsystem
8.5.8.1 Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
          TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93GS-00-1, -2, -3
8.5.8.2 Perform Ground Readiness Test (GRT)           *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
          TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-40JG-93-1
8.5.8.3 Perform Tail Warning Function                 *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
          Operational Check
8.5.8.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *
          TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93-8-1; 1B-1B-2-
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
          93GS-00-1, -2, -3; -93WD-00-1; and
          CITS Parameter File
8.5.8.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.9 Remove and Install LRUs
       TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93JG-80-1
8.5.9.1 Tail warning function receiver processor      *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.9.2 Tail warning function antenna assembly        *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.9.3 ALE-50 Towed Decoy
8.5.9.3.1 Theory of Operation
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
           TR: TR: TO 1B-1B-2-93GS-00- 1, -2
8.5.9.3.2 Perform BIT                                 *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.9.3.3 Perform Operational Checkout                *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.9.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *
           TR: TR: TOs 1B-1B-2-93-8-1; 1B-1B-
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
           2-93GS-00-1, -2, -3; -93WD-00-1; and
           CITS Parameter File
8.5.9.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                      *                                                                    -         -          -
8.5.9.3.6 Remove and Install LRUs
           TR: TR: TO-1B-1B-2-93JG- 10-3
8.5.9.3.6.1 Circuit Breaker Panel                     *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.9.3.6.2 Transformer/Rectifier                     *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.9.3.6.3 Improved Multi-Platform Launch            *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
             Controller
8.5.9.3.6.4 Ground Safe/Arm Switch                    *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.9.3.6.5 Launcher Assembly/Dual- Capable           *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
             Launcher
8.5.9.3.6.6 Data link terminal                        *                                                                              -         -          -
8.5.9.3.7 Memory Loader Verifier Set AN/USQ-
           131 (MLVS)
8.5.9.3.7.1 Use and Operation                         *
                                                                                                                                     -         -          -
             TR: TR: 31S-2USQ-131-1
8.5.9.3.7.2 Perform Software Loading and              *
             Verification                                                                                                            -         -          -
             TR: TR: 31S-2USQ-131-1
                                                                 91
                                                  B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                       2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

Attachment 9 B-2 Training Requirements
 NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A933XXXXX, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
         representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
         general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
         the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
         identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
 NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
 NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
 NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
 NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
         not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
         Attachment is waived.
 NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
         736-7908
9.1 GENERAL MAINTENANCE (B-2)
9.1.1 Operate AFT Avionics Bay Door                                                                                                      -         -          -
      TR: 1B-2A-2-01JG-60-2
9.1.2 Remove/Install Aft Equipment Bay                                                                                                   -         -          -
                                                          *
      Access Panel
9.1.3 Perform ECS Power Up/Down                                                                                                          -         -          -
                                                          *
      TR: 1B-2A-2-21JG-00-1
9.1.4 Loosen/Tighten Swing Clamps                                                                                                        -         -          -
                                                          *
      TR: 1B-2A-2-01JG-30-1
9.1.5 Install/Remove Maintenance Write Disk                                                                                              -         -          -
      TR: 1B-2A-2-31JG-10-1
9.1.6 Ensure Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                                                                                               -         -          -
                                                          *
      TR: 1B-2A-2-05JG-20-1
9.1.7 Apply External Power                                                                                                               -         -          -
      TR: 1B-2A-2-05JG-10-1, 1B-2A-2-05JG-                *
      10-2
9.1.8 Remove/Install Avionics Rack Access                                                                                                -         -          -
                                                          *
      Panels
9.1.9 Remove/Install Internal Access Panels               *                                                                              -         -          -
9.1.10 Remove/Install External Access Panels              *                                                                              -         -          -
9.1.11 Remove/Install Lexan Panels                        *                                                                              -         -          -
9.1.12 Circuit Breaker Panel Maintenance                                                                                                 -         -          -
9.1.13 Remove/Install Power Control Unit                                                                                                 -         -          -
9.1.14 Perform Power Control Unit Ops Check                                                                                              -         -          -
9.2 ON-BOARD TEST SYSTEM (OBTS) (B-2)
9.2.1 Functional Theory of Operation                                                                                                     -         -          -
      TR: TOs 1B-2A-2-31GS-00-1, -40GS-00-1
9.2.2 Purpose                                                                                                                            -         -          -
      TR: TO 1B-2A-2-24GS-00-1
9.2.3 Interface with DAS systems                                                                                                         -         -          -
      TR: TO 1B-2A-2-93GS-00-1
9.2.4 Use OBTS Data and OBTS Digital                                                                                                     -         -          -
      Computer System (ODCS) Reports for
      fault isolation of Aircraft Systems
                                                                    *
      Malfunctions
      TR: TO 1B-2A-2-40GS-00-1 and
      applicable system GS-00-1
                                                                     92
                                               B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

9.2.5 Login/Logout OGPII                                                                                                             -         -          -
                                                      *
       TR: Software Users Manual-
9.2.6 Produce/Recreate Debrief Reports                                                                                               -         -          -
       TR: TO 31S5-4-2340-1
9.2.7 Run Predefined Text and Graphics Reports                                                                                       -         -          -
       TR: TO 31S5-4-2340-1
9.2.8 Produce Ad-Hoc Reports                                                                                                         -         -          -
                                                      *
       TR: TO 31S5-4-2340-1
9.3 MULTIPLEX BUS SYSTEM (B-2)
9.3.1 Purpose                                                                                                                        -         -          -
       TR: TO 1B-2A-2-40GS-00-1
9.3.2 Functional theory of operation                                                                                                 -         -          -
       TR: TO 1B-2A-A-40GS-00-1
9.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                              -         -          -
9.3.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                          *                                                                    -         -          -
9.3.5 Remove and Install
       TR: TO 1B-2A-2-27GS-00-1
9.3.5.1 Bus connectors                                *                                                                              -         -          -
9.3.5.2 Bus terminators                               *                                                                              -         -          -
9.3.5.3 Bus couplers                                  *                                                                              -         -          -
9.4 FLIGHT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (B-2)
9.4.1 Purpose                                                                                                                        -         -          -
9.4.2 Interface with DMS                                                                                                             -         -          -
9.4.3 Perform OFP Load                                *                                                                              -         -          -
9.4.4 Perform Mission Data Load                       *                                                                              -         -          -
9.4.5 Perform Classified Data Erase                   *                                                                              -         -          -
9.5 DEFENSIVE SYSTEMS
     ORGANIZATIONAL LEVEL
     MAINTENANCE (B-2)
9.5.1 Defensive management processors (ZSR-
       61 system)
9.5.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
         TR: TO 1B-2A-2-93GS-00-1
9.5.1.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
9.5.1.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                             -         -          -
         TR: TOs 1B-2A-2-93GS-00- 1, -93WD-                     *
         00-1
9.5.2 Remove/Install Processor                        *                                                                              -         -          -
9.5.3 AN/APR-50 Receiver (Threat emitter
       location system)
9.5.3.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
         TR: TO 1B-2A-2-93GS-00-1
9.5.3.2 Perform preprocessor data load                                                                                               -         -          -
                                                                *
         TR: TO 1B-2A-2-93JG-50-1
9.5.3.3 Perform operational check                                                                                                    -         -          -
                                                      *
         TR: TO 1B-2A-2-40JG-10-1
9.5.3.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
9.5.3.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
                                                                93
                                               B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

         TR: TOs 1B-2A-2-93GS-00- 1, -93WD-
         00-1
9.5.3.6 Remove/Install
9.5.3.6.1 Band -1, -2, -3 Receiver Tasks 93-52-                                                                                      -         -          -
                                                      *
          111-2-3
9.5.3.6.2 Band-4 Receiver Tasks 93- 52-111-2, -                                                                                      -         -          -
                                                      *
          3
9.5.3.6.3 Preprocessor Tasks 93-52- 109-2, -3         *                                                                              -         -          -
9.5.3.6.4 Processor Tasks 93-52- 107-2, -3            *                                                                              -         -          -
9.5.3.6.5 RF front end - Band 1 Tasks 93-52-                                                                                         -         -          -
                                                      *
          101-2, -3
9.5.3.6.6 RF front end - Band 2/3 Tasks 93-52-                                                                                       -         -          -
                                                      *
          103-2, -3
9.5.3.6.7 RF front end - Band 3 Tasks 93-52-                                                                                         -         -          -
                                                      *
          105-2, -3
9.5.3.6.8 Band-1 Antenna                                        *                                                                    -         -          -
9.5.3.6.9 Band-2 Antenna                                        *                                                                    -         -          -
9.5.3.6.10 Band-3 Antenna                                       *                                                                    -         -          -
9.5.3.6.11 Band-4 Antenna                                       *                                                                    -         -          -
9.5.3.6.12 Aft junction box                                                                                                          -         -          -
9.5.3.6.13 Cable compensation unit                                                                                                   -         -          -
9.5.3.6.14 Phase matched cables                       *                                                                              -         -          -
9.5.3.6.15 Semi-rigid coaxial cables                  *                                                                              -         -          -
9.6 PILOT ALERT SYSTEM (B-2)
     TR: TO 1B-2A-2-31GS-00-1
9.6.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                            -         -          -
9.6.2 Perform operation check                         *                                                                              -         -          -
9.6.3 Isolate Malfunctions                            *                                                                              -         -          -
9.6.4 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                                                                                               -         -          -
       TR: TOs 1B-2A-2-31GS-00- 1, -31WD-                       *
       00-1
9.6.5 Perform Leak Test                                         *                                                                    -         -          -
9.6.6 Perform Purge Test                                        *                                                                    -         -          -
9.6.7 Inspect Pilot Alert System Window                         *                                                                    -         -          -
9.6.8 Remove/Install
       TR: TO 1B-2A-2-31JG-50-1
9.6.8.1 Sensor                                        *                                                                              -         -          -
9.6.8.2 Processor                                     *                                                                              -         -          -
9.6.8.3 Dehumidifier (Desiccant)                      *                                                                              -         -          -
9.6.8.4 Window                                                  *                                                                    -         -          -
9.7 TEST EQUIPMENT
9.7.1 Microcircuit Programmer (MLV)                                                                                                  -         -          -
       TR: 33D7-159-1
9.7.2 AN/GSM-352 Antenna system test set                                                                                             -         -          -
       TR: 33D7-135-1
9.7.3 AN/ALM-280 Enhanced Automated                                                                                                  -         -          -
       Special Test Equipment

                                                                 94
                                               B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                Training/Information
                                                                                                                                Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References          A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                  3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                  Level     Level      Level
                                                    5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                         Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

      TR: 33D7-13-205-1
9.7.4 Transmission Line and Antenna Cabling                                                                                          -         -          -
                                                      *
      Test Set
9.7.5 Bus Characterization                            *                                                                              -         -          -
9.7.6 Enhanced Diagnostic Aid                         *                                                                              -         -          -




                                                                 95
                                                  B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                       2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

Attachment 10 B-52 Training Requirements
 NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A933XXXXX, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
         representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
         general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
         the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
         identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
 NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
 NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
 NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
 NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
         not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
         Attachment is waived.
 NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
         736-7908
10.1 ON-EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE (B-
      52)
      TR: TO 1B-52H / TO 1B-52H-6 / TO 1B-
      52H-2-XGA-X / TO 1B-52H-2JG-2 / TO
      1B-52H-6WC-1
10.1.1 General
10.1.1.1 Ensure Aircraft Is Safe For                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          Maintenance
10.1.1.2 Check/install ejection seat safing pins          *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.1.3 Locate electrical distribution system            *                                                                              -         -          -
          components (circuit breakers, relays,
          etc.)
10.1.1.4 Apply external power                             *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.1.5 Operate aircraft interphone system               *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.1.6 Open and close nose radome                       *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.1.7 Secure/unsecure aircraft panels, doors,          *                                                                              -         -          -
          and radomes applicable to EW systems
10.1.1.8 Inspect and repair LRU racks, shock              *                                                                              -         -          -
          mounts, and static bonding devices
10.1.1.9 Perform aircraft preflight inspection            *                                                                              -         -          -
          (EWS portion)
10.1.1.10 Perform aircraft alert inspection (EWS          *                                                                              -         -          -
          portion)
10.1.1.11 Operate flaps                                                                                                                  -         -          -
10.1.2 AN/ALE-20 Flare Ejector System
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect. 6
10.1.2.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                             -         -          -
10.1.2.2 Perform stepper switch resetting                 *                                                                              -         -          -
          procedure
10.1.2.3 Adjust flare door safety switch                            *                                                                    -         -          -
10.1.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                             *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.2.5 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                           *                                                                    -         -          -
10.1.2.6 Perform Operational Checks
10.1.2.6.1 Preload checkout                               *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.2.6.2 Fast checkout                                                                                                                 -         -          -
10.1.2.6.3 Complete checkout                              *                                                                              -         -          -

                                                                     96
                                               B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level      Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

10.1.2.7 Remove And Install Components
10.1.2.7.1 Junction box                                *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.2.7.2 Stepping switches                           *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.2.7.3 Ground test and safety interlock            *                                                                              -         -          -
           switches
10.1.3 AN/ALE-24 Chaff Dispensing System
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect. 7
10.1.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.1.3.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.3.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
10.1.3.4 Perform Operational Checks
10.1.3.4.1 Chaff dispensing test procedure             *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.3.4.2 Complete checkout                           *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.3.5 Remove and Install Components
10.1.3.5.1 D-20 Ejectors                               *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.3.5.2 Magazines                                   *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.4 AN/ALR-20 Panoramic Receiver
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 4
10.1.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.1.4.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.4.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
10.1.4.4. Perform Operational Checks
10.1.4.4.1 Fast checkout                               *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.4.4.2 Look through checks                         *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.4.4.3 Monitor probe antenna check                 *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.4.4.4 Blanking check                              *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.4.5 Remove and Install Components
10.1.4.5.1 C-9449 Receiver control                     *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.4.5.2 IP-1168, IP1168B Indicators                 *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.4.5.3 PP-3406 Power supply                        *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.4.5.4 Blanking amplifier                          *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.4.5.5 Trace 1 Antenna Left Wingtip                *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.5 AN/ALT-32A Jamming Transmitter
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 11
10.1.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.1.5.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.5.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
10.1.5.4 Perform Fast Checkout                         *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.5.5 Remove and Install Components
10.1.5.5.1 C-7721, C-7722 Control- Indicators          *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.5.5.2 T-1086, T-1087 Transmitters                 *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.5.5.3 Antenna Right Wingtip                       *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.6 AN/ALT-16A / AN/ALQ-122
        Countermeasures System
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 8
10.1.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -

                                                                  97
                                               B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level      Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

10.1.6.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.6.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
10.1.6.4 Perform Operational Checks
10.1.6.4.1 Operational checkout                        *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.6.4.2 Operational checkout using the                                                                                             -         -          -
           AN/USM-464A Countermeasures
           Test Set
10.1.6.4.3 System test cable measurement               *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.6.4.4 Jamming transmitter fast checkout                                                                                          -         -          -
10.1.7 AN/ALQ-155(V) POWER
        MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
10.1.7.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.1.7.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.7.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
10.1.7.4 Perform HD-766A filling and draining          *                                                                              -         -          -
          Procedures
10.1.7.5 Reprogram system                              *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.7.6 Perform Operational Checks
10.1.7.6.1 Cooling system check                        *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.7.6.2 Fast checkout                               *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.7.6.3 Operational checkout using the                                                                                             -         -          -
           AN/USM-464A Countermeasures
           Test Set
10.1.7.7 Remove and Install Components
10.1.7.7.1 C-10130 Control-                            *                                                                              -         -          -
           Indicator/Programmers
10.1.7.7.2 HD-766A Liquid coolers                      *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.7.7.3 MX-8225 Flow protection valves              *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.7.7.4 RT-1219 Receiver/Transmitters and           *                                                                              -         -          -
           T- 1150D Transmitters
10.1.7.7.5 Antennas                                    *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.7.7.6 Perform loading/unloading procedures        *                                                                              -         -          -
           using transmitter loader
10.1.8 AN/ALQ-172(V)2 Countermeasures
        System
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 3
10.1.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.1.8.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
10.1.8.4 Reprogram system                              *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.5 Reconfigure AS-4078 Phased array              *                                                                              -         -          -
          antennas
10.1.8.6 Adjust pressure switches                      *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.7 Perform Operational Checks
10.1.8.7.1 System checkout                             *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.7.2 Interface check                             *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.7.3 Operational checkout using the                                                                                             -         -          -
                                                                  98
                                               B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level      Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

            AN/USM-464A Countermeasures
            Test Set
10.1.8.7.4 Pressurization checks                       *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.7.5 Blanking check                              *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.8 Remove and Install Components
10.1.8.8.1 CV-3773 Electronics Unit                    *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.8.2 AS-4078 Phased Array Antennas               *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.8.3 SA-2396 Quadrant Switches                   *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.8.4 Pressure pumps                              *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.8.5 Pressure switches                           *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.8.8.6 Low pressure warning and blanking           *                                                                              -         -          -
            control panel
10.1.9 Sensor Integration
        TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 10
10.1.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.1.9.2 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.9.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                        *                                                                    -         -          -
10.1.9.4 Reprogram system                              *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.9.5 Perform operational checkout                  *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.10 Radar Warning Receiver
          TR: TO 1B-52H-2-20, Sect 12
10.1.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                         -         -          -
10.1.10.2 Isolate Malfunctions                         *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.10.3 Perform Advanced Troubleshooting                       *                                                                    -         -          -
10.1.10.4 Perform dot centering adjustment                                                                                            -         -          -
10.1.10.5 Reprogram system                             *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.10.6 Perform Operational Checks
10.1.10.6.1 Operational Checkout                       *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.10.6.2 Operational checkout using the                                                                                            -         -          -
             AN/USM-464A Countermeasures
             Test Set
10.1.10.6.3 Blanking check                             *                                                                              -         -          -
10.1.10.7 Remove and Install Components
10.1.10.7.1 AM-6639 Amplifier- Detectors               *                                                                              -         -          -
10.2 OFF-EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE (B-
      52)
      TR: TO 00-25-234 / TO 1-1A-15
10.2.1 Fabricate test bench/mock-up                                                                                                   -         -          -
        TR: TO 00-25-234, 1-1A-15, 33-1-32
10.2.2 Maintain test bench/mock-up                                                                                                    -         -          -
        TR: TO 00-25-234, 1-1A-15
10.2.3 Perform visual inspection of LRUs                                                                                              -         -          -
10.2.4 AN/ALE-24 Chaff Dispensing System
        TR: TO 12P3-2ALE24-2, 12P3-2ALE24-
        4
10.2.4.1 Perform AN/ALE-24 chaff magazine              *                                                                              -         -          -
           loading and handling procedures

                                                                  99
                                               B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level      Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

10.2.4.2 Perform Operational Checkout
10.2.4.2.1 C-4507 Programmer                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.2.4.2.2 C-4508 Selector                                                                                                            -         -          -
10.2.4.2.3 D-20 Dispenser                                                                                                             -         -          -
10.1.4.3 Troubleshoot/Align
10.1.4.3.1 C-4507 Programmer                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.1.4.3.2 C-4508 Selector                                                                                                            -         -          -
10.1.4.3.3 D-20 Dispenser                                                                                                             -         -          -
10.2.5 AN/ALQ-155(V) Power Management
        System
        TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ155-2
10.2.5.1 Perform C-10130 Operational checkout                                                                                         -         -          -
10.2.5.2 Align/Reprogram C-10130                                                                                                      -         -          -
10.2.5.3 Troubleshoot C-10130                                                                                                         -         -          -
10.2.5.4 Perform T1150D/RT-1219 Operational                                                                                           -         -          -
          checkout
10.2.5.5 Align T-1150D/RT-1219                                                                                                        -         -          -
10.2.5.6 Troubleshoot T-1150D/RT- 1219                                                                                                -         -          -
10.2.5.7 AN/ALM-99B Test Set
          TR: TO 33D7-42-11-1
10.2.5.7.1 Perform operational checkout                                                                                               -         -          -
10.2.5.7.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                               -         -          -
10.2.5.7.3 Calibrate                                                                                                                  -         -          -
10.2.5.8 AN/ALM-194
          TR: TO 33D7-13-80-1
10.2.5.8.1 Perform operational checkout                                                                                               -         -          -
10.2.5.8.2 Perform power supply voltage                                                                                               -         -          -
           measurement
10.2.5.8.3 Perform preventive maintenance                                                                                             -         -          -
10.2.5.8.4 Troubleshoot                                                                                                               -         -          -
10.2.5.9 AN/ALM-244
          TR: TO 33D7-29-7-1
10.2.5.9.1 Inspect and repair                                                                                                         -         -          -
10.2.6 AN/ALQ-172(V) CM SYSTEM
        TR: TO 12P3-2ALQ172-2
10.2.6.1 Perform system checkout                                                                                                      -         -          -
10.2.6.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                 -         -          -
10.2.6.3 Reprogram LRUs                                                                                                               -         -          -
10.2.6.4 Perform LRU repairs                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.2.6.5 AN/ALM-252(V) Test Bench
          TR: TO 33D7-13-109-1
10.2.6.5.1 Operate                                                                                                                    -         -          -
10.2.6.5.2 Inspect and clean                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.2.6.5.3 Perform calibration check and                                                                                              -         -          -
           adjustment
10.2.6.5.4 Perform checkout                                                                                                           -         -          -
10.2.6.5.5 Troubleshoot                                                                                                               -         -          -
                                                                 100
                                               B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                    2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                 Training/Information
                                                                                                                                 Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References           A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                   3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                   Level     Level      Level
                                                     5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                          Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

10.2.6.6 AN/ALM-267 Miltope Tiger II
          Electronic Test Set
          TR: TO 33D7-3-335-1, TM M365-295
10.2.6.6.1 Operate                                                                                                                    -         -          -
10.2.6.6.2 Inspect and clean                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.2.6.6.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                               -         -          -
10.2.6.6.4 Repair                                                                                                                     -         -          -
10.2.7 AN/USM-464A COUNTERMEASURES
        TEST SET
        TR: TO 33D7-13-85-1
10.2.7.1 Perform inspections and preventive                                                                                           -         -          -
          maintenance
10.2.7.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                 -         -          -
10.2.7.3 Remove and replace components                                                                                                -         -          -
10.2.7.4 Perform Intermediate Level Calibration                                                                                       -         -          -
10.2.7.5 Perform Winchester drive files                                                                                               -         -          -
          maintenance
10.2.7.6 Perform computer hard drive file                                                                                             -         -          -
          maintenance
10.2.8 Radar Warning Receiver (RWR)
        TR: TO 12P3-2ALR69-98-1
10.2.8.1 Perform operational checkout                                                                                                 -         -          -
10.2.8.2 Troubleshoot                                                                                                                 -         -          -
10.2.8.3 Reprogram                                                                                                                    -         -          -
10.2.8.4 Perform LRU repairs                                                                                                          -         -          -
10.2.8.5 RWR Mock-up
10.2.8.5.1 Perform operational checkout                                                                                               -         -          -
10.2.8.5.2 Inspect                                                                                                                    -         -          -
10.2.8.5.3 Troubleshoot                                                                                                               -         -          -
10.2.8.5.4 Repair                                                                                                                     -         -          -
10.2.9 Inspect and maintain OF-180 Aircraft                                                                                           -         -          -
        Adapter Group (AAG)
        TR: TO 33D7-50-1267-1
10.2.10 Inspect and maintain OF-208 Aircraft                                                                                          -         -          -
         Adapter Group (AAG)
         TR: TO 33D7-50-1623-1




                                                                 101
                                                 EC-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                       2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                    Training/Information
                                                                                                                                    Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                      3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                      Level     Level      Level
                                                        5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                             Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

Attachment 11 EC-130 Training Requirements
 NOTE 1: The apprentice course, J3ABR2A933XXXXX, Communication/Countermeasures/Navigation Systems Apprentice, will use
         representative aircraft/trainers to accomplish the system specific training requirements as identified by the specific STS. The
         general training requirements section of the CFETP is used to code core competencies of the career field that will be taught in
         the apprentice course. The MDS specific attachments are to be used in conjunction with the general and common sections to
         identify work center requirements and annotate qualifications.
 NOTE 2: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
 NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
 NOTE 4: Items marked in Column 4A with both a proficiency code and a dash will be taught if equipment is available (Ex: 2b/-).
 NOTE 5: Items coded in Column 2A or 2B of the General Attachment are core tasks. If the STS line item identified with an “*” does
         not apply to a procedure, aircraft MDS, or equipment at a given base, the completion of the core task in the General
         Attachment is waived.
 NOTE 6: Address comments or recommend changes through the MAJCOM Functional Manager to the AETC Training Manager at DSN
         736-7908
11.1 EC-130H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
11.1.1 GENERAL MAINTENANCE
         TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.1.1 Practice safety when working with RF             *                                                                              -         -          -
          equipment
11.1.1.2 Apply and remove power thru special              *                                                                              -         -          -
          systems receptacle
11.1.1.3 Operate special systems air                      *                                                                              -         -          -
          conditioner
11.1.2 SPECIAL SYSTEMS ANTENNAS
         TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.2.1 Identify and locate Receive/DF                   *                                                                              -         -          -
          Components
11.1.2.2 Identify and Locate Transmit                     *                                                                              -         -          -
          Components
11.1.2.3 Identify and locate RF transmission              *                                                                              -         -          -
          lines
11.1.2.4 Perform Operational Checkout                     *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.2.5 Isolate Malfunctions                             *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.2.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                   *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.2.7 Remove and Install
          TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical
          Data
11.1.2.7.1 Low band transmit antenna outer                *                                                                              -         -          -
            elements upper quadrant
11.1.2.7.2 Low band transmit antenna outer                *                                                                              -         -          -
            elements lower quadrant
11.1.2.7.3 Horizontal stabilizer leading edge                                                                                            -         -          -
11.1.2.7.4 Low band transmit antenna inner                *                                                                              -         -          -
            elements
11.1.2.7.5 Low band transmit antenna coax                 *                                                                              -         -          -
            feeder cable
11.1.2.7.6 Low band transmit antenna                      *                                                                              -         -          -
            transformer
11.1.2.7.7 Low band transmit antenna
            feedboom
            TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical
                                                                    102
                                               EC-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

             Data
11.1.2.7.7.1 Lower guy rope                             *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.2.7.7.2 Upper guy rope                             *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.2.7.8 Mid band transmit antennas                   *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.2.7.9 High band HB (HB1/HB2) receive               *                                                                              -         -          -
             nose radome antennas
11.1.2.7.10 High band system receive nose               *                                                                              -         -          -
               radome antennas
11.1.2.7.11 High band system receive wingtip            *                                                                              -         -          -
               antennas
11.1.2.7.12 DF Retractable antennas                     *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.3 RF DISTRIBUTION SUBSYSTEM
         (RFD)
         TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.3.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                           -         -          -
11.1.3.2 Perform Operational Checkout                   *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.3.3 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.3.4 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.4 TECHNICIAN STATION
         SUBSYSTEM
         TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.4.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                           -         -          -
11.1.4.2 Identify and locate major components           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.4.3 Perform Operational Checkout                   *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.4.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.4.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.5 COMPUTER SUBSYSTEM
         TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.5.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                           -         -          -
11.1.5.2 Identify and locate major components           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.5.3 Perform Operational Checkout                   *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.5.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.5.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.5.6 Perform Disciplined Frequency                  *                                                                              -         -          -
            Standard (DFS) characterization
11.1.5.7 Perform battery removal and                    *                                                                              -         -          -
            replacement procedures for DFS
11.1.6 HUMAN-MACHINE INTERFACE
         (HMI)
         TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.6.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                           -         -          -
11.1.6.2 Identify and locate major components           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.6.3 Perform Operational Checkout                   *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.6.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.6.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.6.6 Removal and Install keyboard                   *                                                                              -         -          -
            assemblies

                                                                  103
                                               EC-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

11.1.7   COMPASS CALL OPERATIONAL
         SOFTWARE (CCOS)
         TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.7.1 Perform basic CCOS keyset                      *                                                                              -         -          -
           commands and arguments
11.1.7.2 Perform special systems initialization         *                                                                              -         -          -
           and shut down procedures
11.1.7.3 Perform level 1/ level 2/ Extended             *                                                                              -         -          -
           BITs
11.1.8 ACQUISITION SUBSYSTEM
         TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.8.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                           -         -          -
11.1.8.2 Identify and locate major components           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.8.3 Perform Operational Checkout                   *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.8.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.8.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.9 ANALYSIS SUBSYSTEM
         TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.9.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                           -         -          -
11.1.9.2 Identify and locate major components           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.9.3 Perform Operational Checkout                   *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.9.4 Isolate Malfunctions                           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.9.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                 *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.10 EXCITER SUBSYSTEM
          TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.10.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
11.1.10.2 Identify and locate the major                 *                                                                              -         -          -
            components
11.1.10.3 Perform Operational Checkout                  *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.10.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.10.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.11 DF/SILO SUBSYSTEM
          TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.11.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
11.1.11.2 Identify and locate major components          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.11.3 Perform Operational Checkout                  *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.11.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.11.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.12 LOW BAND TRANSMIT
          SUBSYSTEM
          TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.12.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
11.1.12.2 Identify and locate major components          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.12.3 Perform operational checkout                  *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.12.4 Perform power adjustments                     *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.12.5 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.12.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
                                                                  104
                                               EC-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

11.1.13    MID BAND TRANSMIT
          SUBSYSTEM
          TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.13.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
11.1.13.2 Identify and locate major components          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.13.3 Perform operational checkout                  *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.13.4 Perform power adjustments                     *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.13.5 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.13.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.14 HIGH BAND SUBSYSTEM
          TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.14.1 Theory of operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
11.1.14.2 Identify and locate major components          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.14.3 Perform Operational Checkout                  *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.14.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.14.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.15 HIGH BAND ONE
          TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.15.1 Identify and locate major components          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.16 HIGH BAND TWO
          TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.16.1 Identify and locate major components          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.17 HIGH BAND THREE
          TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.17.1 Identify and locate major components          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.18 SELF PROTECTION SYSTEMS
11.1.18.1 AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures
            Dispensing Set (CMDS)
            TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical
            Data, 33DS112-16-1 and Other
            Applicable Directives
11.1.18.1.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -          -
11.1.18.1.2 Identify and locate major                   *                                                                              -         -          -
              components
11.1.18.1.3 Reprogram AN/ALE-47 CMDS                    *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.18.1.4 Perform CMDS Operational                    *                                                                              -         -          -
              Checkout
11.1.18.1.5 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.18.1.6 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.18.1.7 Up/ Download Flares                         *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.18.2 An/AAR-54 Missile Warning System
            (MWS)
            TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical
            Data
11.1.18.2.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                        -         -          -
11.1.18.2.2 Identify and locate major                   *                                                                              -         -          -
              components
11.1.18.2.3 Perform Operational Check                   *                                                                              -         -          -
                                                                  105
                                               EC-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

11.1.18.2.4 Isolate Malfunctions                        *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.18.2.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                              *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.18.2.6 Clean Optical Sensors                       *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.19 MISCELLANEOUS TASKS
           TR: Applicable EC-130 Technical Data
11.1.19.1 Perform Home Station Check on                 *                                                                              -         -          -
             Special Systems
11.1.19.2 Perform ISO Inspection on Special             *                                                                              -         -          -
             Systems
11.1.19.3 Perform VSWR Check on Special                 *                                                                              -         -          -
             Systems Transmit Antennas
11.1.19.4 Remove and install circuit card               *                                                                              -         -          -
             assemblies
11.1.19.5 Remove and install equipment racks            *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.19.6 Rig Lower guy rope                            *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.19.7 Rig upper guy rope                            *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.19.8 Perform disk load procedures (A/C,            *                                                                              -         -          -
             PMPS, C2D2, BRCS, etc.)
11.1.19.9 Access and download software/files            *                                                                              -         -          -
             from the MSEWDDS
11.1.19.10 Understand/Maintain TMDE                     *                                                                              -         -          -
              Program
11.1.19.11 Identify and Locate Data Guard               *                                                                              -         -          -
              Components
11.1.19.12 Theory of Operation of Data Guard                                                                                           -         -          -
11.1.19.13 Identify and Locate Blade Processor          *                                                                              -         -          -
              Components
11.1.19.14 Theory of Operation of Blade                                                                                                -         -          -
              Processor
11.1.20 SPECIAL EMITTER ARRAY
           (SPEAR) SUBSYSTEM
           TR: LTM 1EC-130H(CC)-2-14
           CHAPTER 14, 1EC-130H(CC)-2-
           14CL-1, AFI 33-211 and Applicable
           Commercial Manuals
11.1.20.1 Theory of Operation                                                                                                          -         -          -
11.1.20.2 Identify and locate all major                 *                                                                              -         -          -
             components
11.1.20.3 Perform Operational Checkout                  *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.20.4 Isolate Malfunctions                          *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.20.5 Advanced Troubleshooting                                *                                                                    -         -          -
11.1.20.6 Configure Spear Pod                           *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.20.7 Perform SPEAR pylon upload and                *                                                                              -         -          -
             download procedures
11.1.20.8 Perform SPEAR pod upload and                  *                                                                              -         -          -
             download procedures
11.1.20.9 Perform 180 Day MAU-12                        *                                                                              -         -          -
Inspection

                                                                  106
                                               EC-130 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                     2. Core Tasks 3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Indicate
                                                                                                                                  Training/Information
                                                                                                                                  Provided
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References            A         B         A           B         C          D           E            A         B          C
                                                                                                                                    3 Skill   5 Skill    7 Skill
                                                                                                                                    Level     Level      Level
                                                      5 Level   7 Level   Training   Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                           Start     Complete   Initials   Initials   Initials     Course     CDC        CDC

11.1.20.10     Remove and Install MAU-12                *                                                                              -         -          -
11.1.20.11     Operation of 4100B trailer                                                                                              -         -          -




                                                                  107
                            AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                               Used To Indicate
                                                  Tasks                                                                        Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B            A            B          C          D           E           A         B       C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level       Training     Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                      Start       Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     CDC     CDC


Attachment 12 – AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
NOTE 1: This attachment identifies the STS elements taught in the standardized Avionics Fundamentals course.
NOTE 2: Only proficiency level coded items in Column 4A are trained in the pre-requisite Avionics Fundamentals course.
NOTE 3: Users may annotate unique AFSC-specific devices or circuits not identified by this attachment IAW AFI 31-2221.
NOTE 4: All course requirements are trained in the 3-level resident course during wartime.
12.1 AVIONICS SUPPORT SUBJECTS
12.1.1 Safety                                                                                                      B                        -       -
12.1.2 First Aid                                                                                                   A                        -       -
12.1.3 Electrostatic Discharge (ESD)                                                                               B                        -       -
        Control
12.1.4 Electromagnetic Effects (EMP/EMI)                                                                           B                        -       -
12.1.5 Metric Notation
12.1.5.1 Powers of Ten                                                                                             B                        -       -
12.1.5.2 Electrical Prefixes                                                                                       B                        -       -
12.1.6 Digital Numbering systems                                                                                   A                        -       -
12.1.7 Common Tools                                                                                                A                        -       -
12.1.8 Technical Publications                                                                                      A                        -       -
12.1.9 Documentation                                                                                               A                        -       -
12.2 TEST EQUIPMENT
12.2.1 Use Digital Multimeter                                                                                      2b                       -       -
12.2.2 Use Oscilloscope                                                                                            2b                       -       -
12.2.3 Wave Generators                                                                                             A                        -       -
12.3 BASIC ELECTRICITY
12.3.1 Direct Current (DC)                                                                                         B                        -       -
12.3.2 Alternating Current (AC)                                                                                    B                        -       -
12.3.3 Resistance Theory                                                                                            B                       -       -
12.3.3.1 Measure Resistance                                                                                         2b                      -       -
12.3.4 Capacitance Theory                                                                                           B                       -       -
12.3.5 Inductance Theory                                                                                            B                       -       -
12.4 Electromagnetic Devices
12.4.1 Transformers                                                                                                 B                       -       -
12.4.2 Relays and Solenoids
12.4.2.1 Theory                                                                                                     B                       -       -
12.4.2.2 Troubleshoot Relay                                                                                         2b                      -       -
12.4.3 Motor Theory
12.4.3.1 DC                                                                                                         A                       -       -
12.4.3.2 AC                                                                                                         A                       -       -
12.4.4 Generator Theory
12.4.4.1 DC                                                                                                         A                       -       -
12.4.4.2 AC                                                                                                         A                       -       -
12.4.5 Synchro/Servo                                                                                                B                       -       -
12.4.6 Transducer                                                                                                   B                       -       -
12.5 Solid State Devices
12.5.1 Theory                                                                                                       A                       -       -
12.5.2 Diodes (LED, Zener, etc)                                                                                     A                       -       -
12.5.3 Integrated Circuits                                                                                          A                       -       -
12.5.4 Operational Amplifiers                                                                                       A                       -       -
12.6 Power Supply Circuits

                                                                           108
                            AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                               Used To Indicate
                                                  Tasks                                                                        Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B            A            B          C          D           E           A         B       C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level       Training     Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                      Start       Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     CDC     CDC


12.6.1 Theory                                                                                                                      B        -       -
12.7 Wave Generating Circuits
12.7.1 Theory                                                                                                                     A         -       -
12.8 Digital Logic Circuits
12.8.1 Theory                                                                                                                     A         -       -
12.8.2 Gates                                                                                                                      A         -       -
12.8.3 Flip Flops                                                                                                                 A         -       -
12.8.4 Digital to Analog and Analog to                                                                                            A         -       -
       Digital Converters
12.9 Basic Computer & Network
      Fundamentals
12.9.1 Theory                                                                                                                     A         -       -
12.9.2 Network Components                                                                                                         A         -       -
12.9.3 Protocols                                                                                                                  A         -       -
12.9.4 Topologies (Architecture)                                                                                                  A         -       -
12.10 Basic Communications
12.10.1 Radio Frequency Theory                                                                                                    A         -       -
12.10.2 Frequency Spectrum                                                                                                        A         -       -
12.10.3 Modulation (AM/FM)                                                                                                        A         -       -
12.10.4 Demodulation (AM/FM)                                                                                                      A         -       -
12.10.5 Receivers/Transmitters                                                                                                    A         -       -
12.10.6 Transmission Mediums Theory                                                                                               A         -       -
12.10.7 Waveguides                                                                                                                A         -       -
12.10.8 Data Buses                                                                                                                A         -       -
12.10.9 Fiber Optics                                                                                                              A         -       -
12.10.10 Coaxial Cables                                                                                                           A         -       -
12.10.11 Antennas                                                                                                                 A         -       -
12.11 Assemble Solder Type Connections
12.11.1 Terminal Connection                                                                                                       1b        -       -
12.11.2 Multipin Connector                                                                                                        1b        -       -
12.11.3 Coaxial Connector                                                                                                         1b        -       -
12.11.4 Desolder Procedures                                                                                                       1b        -       -
12.12 Assemble Solderless Type
       Connections
12.12.1 Coaxial Connector                                                                                                         1b        -       -
12.12.2 Multipin Connector                                                                                                        1b        -       -
12.12.3 Twin-axial Connector (Data Bus)                                                                                           1b        -       -
12.12.4 Crimped Connection
12.12.4.1 Terminal Lugs                                                                                                           1b        -       -
12.12.4.2 Wire Splice                                                                                                             1b        -       -
12.12.5 Shield Termination                                                                                                        1b        -       -
12.13 General Maintenance Practices
12.13.1 Assemble Multipin Connector                                                                                               1b        -       -
         Harness
12.13.2 Secure Cable Harness                                                                                                      1b        -       -
12.13.3 Use Safety Wire                                                                                                           1b        -       -
12.13.4 Troubleshooting Procedures
12.13.4.1 Isolate Wire Open                                                                                                       1b        -       -
                                                                           109
                            AVIONICS FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                               2. Core           3. Certification For OJT                                      4. Proficiency Codes
                                                                                                                               Used To Indicate
                                                  Tasks                                                                        Training/Information
                                                                                                                               Provided (See Note)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References     A        B            A            B          C          D           E           A         B       C
                                                                                                                                3 Skill   5 Skill 7 Skill
                                                                                                                                Level     Level Level
                                               5 Level 7 Level       Training     Training   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                      Start       Complete   Initials   Initials    Initials   Course     CDC     CDC


12.13.4.2 Isolate Wire Short                                                                                                      1b        -       -
12.13.4.3 Isolate Voltage Fault on Multipin                                                                                       1b        -       -
          Connector Harness
12.13.4.4 Isolate Crossed Connection on                                                                                           1b        -       -
          Multipin Connector Harness




                                                                           110
                                                      STS 2AX7X
                                              AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                             Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                             Provided
                                                                                                A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                  3-Skill
                                                                                                       5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                             Level

                                                                                             Course       CDC          Course      CDC

Attachment 13 – AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
NOTE 1: Columns 2 and 3 are deleted from this STS because all items are SUBJECT KNOWLEDGE LEVEL only and require
        no certification.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 3: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 4: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 5: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman
        CDCs.
13.1.     MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
13.1.1.   Aircraft and Equipment Readiness
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.1.2.   Maintenance Concept
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-129
                                                                                                                                    A
13.1.3.   Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-118 and TO 00-35D-54
                                                                                                                                    A
13.1.4.   Operating Instructions (OI)
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 33-360
                                                                                                                                    A
13.1.5.   Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)
          TR: AFCSM 21-556 Volume 2, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-116, and TO 00-20-2
                                                                                                                                    B
13.1.6.   Maintenance Metrics
          TR: AFI 21-103 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                                    A
13.1.7.   Maintenance Repair Priorities
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.1.8.   Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records
          TR: AFI 21-101 and TO 00-20-1
                                                                                                                                    A

13.2.     MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER RESPONSIBILITIES
13.2.1.  Wing Commander (WG/CC)
         TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.2.2. Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)
         TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.2.3. Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)
         TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 38-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.2.4. Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.2.5. MXG Superintendent (SUPT)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.2.6. Squadron Commander (SQ/CC)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.2.7. Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO)/Maintenance Superintendent (MX SUPT)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.2.8. Flight Commander/Flight Chief
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.2.9. AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.2.10. Section NCOIC/Chief
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    B
13.2.11. Production Superintendent (Pro Super)
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                                    A
13.3.     FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS SQUADRON (MOS)



                                                               111
                                                           STS 2AX7X
                                              AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                        Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                        Provided
                                                                                           A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                             3-Skill
                                                                                                  5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                        Level

                                                                                        Course       CDC          Course      CDC

13.3.1.   Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.3.2.   Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                                               A
13.3.3.   Programs and Resources Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.4.     FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
          (AMXS/HMXS)
13.4.1.   Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.4.2.   Flightline Expediter
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.4.3.   Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.4.4.   Aircraft Section
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.4.5.   Specialist Section
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.4.6.   Weapons Section
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.4.7.   Support Section
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.5.     FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON (MXS)
13.5.1.   Accessories Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.5.2.   Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.5.3.   Armament Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.5.4.   Avionics Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.5.5.   Fabrication Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.5.6.   Maintenance Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.5.7.   Munitions Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.5.8.   Propulsion Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.5.9.   Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) Flight
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.6.     MAINTENANCE TRAINING
13.6.1    Types of Training
          TR: AFI 36-2232 and the ETCA site located at: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/
                                                                                                                               A
13.6.2.   Training Documentation
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201 and AFI 36-2232
                                                                                                                               A
13.6.3.   Training Business Area (TBA)
          TR: https://www.my.af.mil/imdsltpa/IMDSTWeb/ActionServlet
                                                                                                                               B
13.6.4.   Special Certification Rosters
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                               A
13.6.5.   Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFPD 10-9
                                                                                                                               A


                                                                      112
                                                           STS 2AX7X
                                              AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                                      4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                                      Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                      Provided
                                                                                                         A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                                           3-Skill
                                                                                                                5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                                      Level

                                                                                                      Course       CDC          Course      CDC

13.6.6.    Training Management
           TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232, AFI 21-101 and AETCI 36-2601
13.6.6.1. Training Forecast                                                                                                                  A
13.6.6.2. Training Request                                                                                                                   A
13.6.6.3. Master Training Plan                                                                                                               A
13.7.      PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
13.7.1.    Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel Manpower Roster (UPMR)
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 36-2110, AFI 38-201 and AFTTP 3-3
13.7.2.    Personnel Utilization
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101
13.8.      MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
13.8.1.    Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 (Vol. 1) and AFTTP 3-3
13.8.2.    Readiness Spares Packages
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFTTP 3-3
13.8.3.    Consumables Management
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFTTP 3-3
13.8.4.    Equipment Items
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and AFMAN 23-220
13.8.5.    Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration, or Operational Flight Programming
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and TO 00-20-3
13.8.6.    Precious Metals Recovery Program
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
13.8.7.    Supply Points
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
13.8.8.    Local Manufacture
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101
13.8.9.    Repair Cycle Assets
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
13.8.10.   Supply Management Products
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
13.8.11.   Tail Number Bins (TNB)
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
13.8.12.   Maintenance Repair/Supply Delivery Priorities
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
13.8.13.   Classified Assets
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFJI 31-102, TO 00-5-1 and TO 00-20-1
13.8.14.   Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 32-7086 and AFI 90-821
13.8.15.   Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting
                                                                                                                                             B
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFMAN 23-110 and TO 00-35D-54
13.8.16.   Special Handling of Supply Assets Containing Hazardous Materials
                                                                                                                                             A
           TR: AFI 24-203, AFI 32-7086, AFMAN 23-110, TO 42B2-1-3, and TO 6J3-1-1
13.8.17.   Maintenance Supply Liaison
           TR: AFI 21-101 and AFMAN 23-110
                                                                                                                                             A
13.9.      TECHNICAL ORDER MANAGEMENT
13.9.1.    Technical Orders Distribution Process
           TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 63-101, AFTTP 3-3 and TO 00-5-1
                                                                                                                                             A




                                                                      113
                                                        STS 2AX7X
                                              AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                                4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                Provided
                                                                                   A         B           C
1. Tasks Knowledge And Technical References                                     3-Skill
                                                                                          5-Skill Level     7-Skill Level
                                                                                Level

                                                                                Course       CDC          Course      CDC

13.9.2.   Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO)
          TR: TO 00-5-15
                                                                                                                       A
13.9.3.   Technical Order Change Process
          TR: AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                       A
13.9.4.   Technical Order Waivers
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFI 21-303
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.    MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND PROGRAMS
13.10.1. Cannibalization Program
          TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.2. Restricted Maintenance Areas
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.3. Red Ball Maintenance
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.4. Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.5. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program
          TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.6. Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.7. Tool Management
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.8. Tool Accountability
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.8.1.         Marking and Tool Identification
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.8.2 Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools and Equipment
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.8.3.         Lost Item/Tool Procedures
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.10.9. Maintenance Recovery Team
          TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.11.    QUALITY ASSURANCE (QA) PROGRAM
13.11.1. Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP)
         TR: AFI 21-101 and AFTTP 3-3
                                                                                                                       A
13.11.2. QA Product Improvement Program
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A
13.11.3 Configuration Management (CM) and Modification Management
         TR: AFI 21-101
                                                                                                                       A




                                                                  114
