DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                CFETP 2F0X1
Headquarters United States Air Force                                                         Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                                  1 January 2014



                                       Fuels
                                    AFSC 2F0X1




         CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
           AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for
downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.




                                                      1
                                   SUPPLY / FUELS BADGE




                                               HERALDRY

The falcon at the center of the badge symbolizes the Air Force. It also symbolizes the strength, dedication
and devotion to duty of supply-fuels personnel who support the generation and employment of aerospace
forces across the spectrum of warfare. In its talons, the falcon is holding a key and a bolt of lightning.

The bolt of lightning represents military strength and wartime readiness.

The key symbolizes the security, safekeeping, and control of supplies, in the old “Quartermaster Corp”
tradition.

The crossed key and lightning bolt indicates that military strength and wartime readiness can only be
achieved through the support provided by professional supply/fuels personnel.

The globe is symbolic of the extensive range of supply and fuels support, which is worldwide.

The olive branch surrounding the badge symbolizes the peace aerospace forces provided through
professional supply corps.

The three levels of award are signified by the addition of a star centered above the falcon for the senior
level and a star surrounded by an olive branch for the master level.


Personnel can find specific guidance for the wear of the Supply/Fuels badge in AFI 36-2903, Dress and
Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel. Enlisted Logistics Readiness personnel are awarded the
basic badge after completing initial skills training (3-skill level), the senior badge after award of the
7-skill level, and the master badge as a Master Sergeant or above with 5 years in the specialty from award
of the 7-skill level.




                                                    2
                                               AFSC 2F0X1
                                CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN



                                                               Table of Contents

PART I ................................................................................................................................................... 4
   PREFACE ................................................................................................................................................. 4
   ABBREVIATIONS / TERMS EXPLAINED ............................................................................................... 5
   Section A - General Information ............................................................................................................... 9
   Section B - Career Progression and Information ................................................................................... 10
   Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements ....................................................................................... 20
   Section D - Resource Constraints ........................................................................................................... 22
   Section E - Transitional Training Guide................................................................................................. 22
PART II ................................................................................................................................................ 22
   Section A - Specialty Training Standards ............................................................................................... 22
   Section B - Course Objective List ........................................................................................................... 40
   Section C - Support Material .................................................................................................................. 40
   Section D - Training Course Index ......................................................................................................... 40
   Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements .......................................................................................... 41




OPR: HQ USAF/A4L
CERTIFIED BY: CMSgt Shayne D. Somavia, HQ USAF/A4LR
Supersedes: CFETP 2F0X1, 1 May 2010
Number of Printed Pages: 41



                                                                             3
                         AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE 2F0X1
                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

PREFACE

1. The Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive document that identifies
life-cycle education and training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task
requirements for the fuels specialty. The CFETP provides fuels personnel a clear career path to success
and instills rigor in all aspects of career field training.
NOTE: Civilians occupying fuels positions will use Part II of this CFETP to support duty position
qualification training. Additionally, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard
(ANG) career paths differ from career paths depicted in this document. They may develop career paths
that accurately describe the life-cycle of reserve and guard personnel.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts that supervisors use to manage and control training in this career
field.

    2.1. Part I provides information for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains how to
    use this plan; Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and responsibilities,
    training strategies, and career field path; Section C associates each level with specialty qualifications
    (knowledge, education, training, and other); Section D indicates resource constraints such as funds,
    manpower, equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for
    SSgt through MSgt.

    2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A: Identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
    includes the duties, tasks, technical references (TRs) to support training, Air Education Training
    Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course, core tasks, and corresponding course
    requirements. Section B: Contains the course objective list (COL) and training standards supervisors
    will use to determine if Airmen satisfied training requirement. Section C: Identifies available
    support materials. An example is a Qualification Training Package (QTP), which may be developed
    to support proficiency training. These packages are located on the Air Force Electronic Publications
    web site http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/. Section D: Identifies a training course index supervisors
    can use to determine resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and
    optional courses. Section E: Identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use
    to determine additional training required for the associated qualification requirements. At the unit
    level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with
    the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in the Fuels Management Career Field
receive effective and efficient training at the appropriate points in their career. This plan enables us to
train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs.

4. Fuels personnel are encouraged to explore available training opportunities using the AETC Education
and Training Course Announcements site at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.




                                                      4
ABBREVIATIONS / TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT) - Formal course providing individuals who are qualified in one or more
positions of their Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise.
Training is for selected career Airmen at the advanced level of the AFS.

Career Field Manager (CFM) - An individual who is the single point of contact (POC) and responsible
for the overall management of a specific career (AF specialty) field. CFM responsibilities include policy
development, training, skills management, and career progression.

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) - Official directory for all military enlisted
classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. Establishes the occupational structure of the Air Force
enlisted force.

Air Force Specialty (AFS) - A group of duty positions (with the same title and code) that require
common qualifications. Each AFS is assigned an AFS Code (AFSC) to identify a specific career field
and qualification level for Air Force enlisted personnel. The first two digits of an AFSC (2F) identify the
career field and the first three digits of an AFSC identify the AFS (2F0). A full AFSC identifies a
specific duty position with an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS/CJQS) -
Training documents approved by the Fuels Career Field Manager for a particular job type or duty
position. Provides a comprehensive task list that is common to all persons serving in a specific duty
position. They are used by supervisors to document task qualifications.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) - A comprehensive core training document that
identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements, training support resources, and the minimum
core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear career path and instills
a sense of industry in career field training.

Certification - A formal indication of an individual's ability to perform a task to required standards.

Continuation Training - Additional training exceeding requirements with emphasis on present or future
duty assignments.

Core Task - Tasks the CFM identifies as minimum qualification requirements within an AFSC regardless
of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or in general across the fuels
AFSC. Guidance for using core tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.

Course Objective List (COL) - A publication, derived from initial/advanced skills course training
standard, identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements and respective standards provided to achieve
a 3- or 7-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to conduct graduate evaluations in
accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST) - A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training
(on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Go/No Go - The stage at which an individual has gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to
perform the tasks without supervision. Meeting the task standard.




                                                      5
Initial Skills Training - A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for enlisted or
mandatory training upgrade to qualified officers.

MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM) - SNCOs who manage designated enlisted career fields for a
MAJCOM and serve as the MAJCOM liaisons for their respective CFMs. MFMs monitor the health and
manning of their career fields within their command and elevate concerns to the Fuels CFM. They
manage command training for their career field and coordinate command training and personnel issues
across their MAJCOM staff and with the CFM. They disseminate Air Force and career field policies and
program requirements affecting their career field throughout the MAJCOM. They coordinate with the Air
Force Personnel Center, through their MAJCOM/A1, to distribute personnel throughout the MAJCOM to
ensure proper command prioritization of allocated/assigned personnel resources. They provide functional
and subject matter expertise to AETC Training Managers to develop new or modify/improve existing
training programs.

Master Task List (MTL) - A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center and
consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms 797 (as a minimum). Should
include tasks required for deployment and/or Unit Type Code (UTC) requirements.

Master Training Plan (MTP) - Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center job
requirements by using a MTL and provides milestones for task, CDC completion, and prioritizes
deployment/UTC, upgrade, and qualification tasks.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR) - Detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of
tasks performed within a particular AFS. The report includes narrative analysis and data formatted into
tables that can easily be sorted by the user to quickly identify and highlight data tailored to user needs.
The OAR is made available to OA customers, such as the CFM and MFMs, the technical training
community, and other interested parties.

On-the-Job Training (OJT) - Hands-on, “over-the-shoulder training” conducted to certify personnel in
both upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position certification training).

Optimal Training - The ideal combination of training settings resulting in the highest levels of
proficiency on specified performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Position Qualification Training - Training designed to qualify an Airman in a specific position that
occurs after upgrade training.

Proficiency Training - Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses,
or on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade.

Qualification Training (QT) - Hands-on performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a
specific duty position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-date
qualifications and is designed to provide the performance skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP) - An instructional package designed for use at the unit to qualify
or aid qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed,
computer-based, or in other audiovisual media.




                                                     6
Resource Constraints - Resource deficiencies, such as funds, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment
that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Schoolhouse - The principle AETC location where training is conducted and/or managed.

Skills Training - A formal course that results in the award of a skill level.

Special Experience Identifier (SEI) - A numerical designator that identifies special experience and
training not otherwise reflected in the classification system. SEIs compliment other classification
identifications and are primarily used for contingency purposes.

Specialty Training - The total training process (life cycle) used to qualify Airmen in their assigned
specialty.

Specialty Training Standard (STS) - An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force specialty in
terms of tasks and knowledge that an Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, or 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS.
It further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training
requirements for an Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) are taught in formal schools and correspondence
courses.

Standard - An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by authority,
custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities,
establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. A standard is a fixed quantity or quality.

Subject Matter Expert (SME) - Highly motivated and experienced individual who is an effective
communicator and has a thorough understanding of career field issues. The CFM and training personnel
call on for specialty related issues such as attending Utilization and Training Workshops (U&TW) and to
write Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) for promotion.

Task Certifier - A person whom the commander assigns to determine an individual's ability to perform a
task to required standards.

Task Qualification Training (TQT) - Training conducted after Chemical, Biological, Radiological,
Nuclear (CBRN) Defense Awareness and Survival Skills training in which individuals perform wartime
mission essential tasks in a simulated wartime environment while wearing full ground crew individual
protective equipment (IPE). HAF, MAJCOM and local FAMs identify wartime mission essential tasks.

Third Party Certification - An evaluation of completed training conducted by the task certifier and is
only required when directed by the CFM.

Total Force - All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the
United States Air Force.

Trainer - A trained and qualified person who teaches personnel to perform specific tasks through OJT
methods. Also, equipment that the trainer uses to teach personnel specified tasks.

Training Capability - The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider the
availability of equipment, qualified trainers, study reference materials, and so on in determining a unit’s
training capability.




                                                      7
Training Requirements Analysis - A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included in the
training decision process.

Upgrade Training (UGT) - Mandatory training which leads to attainment of higher level of proficiency.

Utilization and Training Pattern - A depiction of the training provided to and the jobs performed by
personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or Air Force specialty. There are two types of
patterns: 1) Current pattern, which is based on the training provided to incumbents and the jobs to which
they have been and are assigned, and 2) Alternate pattern, which considers proposed changes in
manpower, personnel, and training policies.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) - A forum of MAJCOM functional managers, SMEs, and
AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training requirements.

Wartime Tasks - Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime
environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3-level course in a
streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that still need them applied
to their schoolhouse tasks.




                                                     8
Section A – General Information

1. Purpose. The CFETP provides information for CFMs, MFMs, commanders, training managers,
supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct effective career field training programs.
This plan outlines the training individuals within the fuels AFS receive to develop and progress
throughout their career. It identifies initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency
training. Initial skills training (3-skill level) is the AFS training an Airman receives upon entry into the
Air Force or retraining into a specialty. AETC conducts this training at one of the technical training
centers. Upgrade training identifies mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, and
correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an Airman in a
specific duty position. This training occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is
designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is
formal specialty training provided to select Airmen. Proficiency training is additional in-residence or
exportable advanced training courses or on-the-job training to increase personnel skills and knowledge
beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP also serves the following purposes:

    1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
    program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
    individual's career.

    1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level, and recommends
    education and training during each phase of an individual’s career

    1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training, and the training
    delivery method.

    1.4. Identifies major resource constraints impacting full implementation of the desired career field
    training process.

2. Uses. MFMs and supervisors at all levels use this plan to provide comprehensive and cohesive
training programs for each individual in the specialty.

    2.1. AETC training personnel develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, field, and exportable
    training based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP.
    They work with the CFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources to provide the
    identified training.

    2.2. MFMs ensure their training programs complement CFETP initial, upgrade, and proficiency
    requirements. Supervisors use OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses to
    satisfy training requirements. MFMs identify MAJCOM-developed unique training requirements for
    inclusion in the plan.

    2.3. Individuals will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. Use the
    lists of courses in Part II as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The CFM approves the CFETP and initiates the annual review of this
document to ensure currency and accuracy. MFMs and AETC training personnel identify and coordinate
on the career field training requirements using the list of courses in Part II to eliminate duplicate training.




                                                       9
Section B – Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

   4.1. Specialty Summary. Maintains and operates fuels and cryogenic facilities and equipment.
   Receives, stores, and issues petroleum, cryogenics, and alternative fuel products. Performs quality
   analysis on petroleum and cryogenics products. Performs preventative and operator maintenance on
   fuel dispensing vehicles and handling equipment, fuels dispensing systems, and conducts operator
   inspection and maintenance on facilities. Prepares receipt, inventory, and issue documents to support
   fuel and cryogenic product accountability. Operates specialized fuels vehicles and support
   equipment. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 182100.

   4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.

       4.2.1. Directs receipt, storage, and issue operations for petroleum, cryogenic, and alternative fuel
       products. Forecasts product requirements, places orders for products and performs product
       receipt operations. Ensures proper handling and segregation of products received and verifies
       quantity and quality. Documents discrepancies in product receipt quantities and quality. Isolates
       off-specification products and takes appropriate actions to correct quality problems. Ensures
       compliance with all safety and environmental regulations.

       4.2.2. Manages, operates, and maintains storage and dispensing facilities. Rotates stock to
       prevent product quality degradation. Ensures an effective operator maintenance program is
       carried out. Maintains inspections and maintenance records for facilities. Reports facility
       deficiencies to appropriate maintenance activity. Initiates facility upgrade and construction
       projects. Inspects and maintains cryogenic storage tanks and support equipment. Operates and
       maintains cryogenic production plants. Manages, maintains, and operates Fuels Support
       Equipment (FSE) and Fuels Operational Readiness Capability Equipment (FORCE) used for
       bare-base operations.

       4.2.3. Performs technical fuels functions. Operates Fuels Service Center (FSC) to monitor all
       product movements and ensure timely response to mission requirements. Coordinates refueling
       requirements with supported agencies and ensures appropriate prioritization of support
       requirements. Ensures vehicle preventive maintenance program is effective and reliable.
       Operates mobile and hydrant refueling equipment to dispense products to aircraft and ground
       support equipment and facilities. Operates cryogenic storage tanks to receive and dispense
       products.

       4.2.4. Maintains fuels and cryogenic records. Ensures accuracy of receipt, inventory, and issue
       documents. Processes computer transactions to ensure proper billing and payment for all product
       receipt and issue transactions. Monitors product temperature and handling gains and losses to
       ensure they are within tolerance. Coordinates gain/loss investigation when acceptable tolerances
       are exceeded. Compiles data and generates ad hoc and recurring reports. Monitors inventory
       levels to ensure adequate stocks are on-hand to support peacetime and prepositioned wartime
       stock requirements. Inputs data into the Business Systems Modernization-Energy (BSM-E) to
       ensure accurate accountability. Reconciles information systems to ensure all transactions have
       processed correctly.

       4.2.5. Maintains quality control of fuel and cryogenic products. Operates and maintains
       laboratory test equipment. Collects and analyzes product samples from receipt sources, bulk




                                                   10
        storage tanks, and dispensing equipment. Documents test results in BSM-E and conducts trend
        analysis on product quality. Establishes a sample correlation program with the Aerospace Fuels
        Laboratory to validate the integrity of the base-level analysis procedures. Collects fuel samples
        from crashed aircraft and submits them to the Aerospace Fuels Laboratory for analysis. Ensures
        an effective product segregation and recovery program is implemented. Establishes and manages
        a lockout/tagout (LOTO) program.

        4.2.6. Oversees unit personnel readiness. Monitors unit manning document and allocates
        personnel to authorized positions. Participates in mobility planning, submits resources and
        training system data, and evaluates and approves unit type code (UTC) changes. Reviews and
        monitors status of UTCs and provides updates to the Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) Reporting
        Tool (ART).

        4.2.7. Conducts preventive maintenance inspections on the fueling vehicle fleet. Determines the
        overall mechanical condition of equipment. Corrects deficiencies as required. Analyzes
        malfunctions, documents deficiencies, and coordinates repairs with the Refueling Maintenance
        shop. Tests repaired fueling units for proper operation. Adjusts fueling equipment components
        and verifies installed safety devices for proper operation. Carries out hydrostatic hose testing.
        Performs scheduled inspections, preventive maintenance, and on-the-spot repairs. Uses technical
        publications to maintain refueling equipment. Prepares refueling equipment for shipment.

5. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent skill levels play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its mission. It is
essential that everyone involved in training does their part to plan, develop, manage, conduct, and
evaluate an effective training program. The CFETP ensures individuals receive viable training at
appropriate points in his or her career. The following narratives identify the career training path.

    5.1. Apprentice (3-Skill Level) Training. The 3-level resident course at Sheppard AFB, TX
    provides initial task and knowledge training required in this specialty. An individual earns the 3-skill
    level upon successful completion of the Fuels Apprentice Course (J3ABR2F031 00AB).

    5.2. Journeyman (5-Skill Level) Training. A Fuels Journeyman earns the 5-skill level by
    completing the 2F051 Career Development Course (CDC), obtains certification on 5-level core tasks,
    and serves 12 months in Upgrade Training (UGT) (9 months for re-trainees). Experience is
    mandatory in functions such as inspection, receipt, issue, and transfer operations at the military
    service station, fuels hydrants, and cryogenic storage. Experience is required with operating available
    mobile fueling vehicles and equipment, documenting fuels transactions for computer processing, and
    performing fuels quality control analysis on petroleum products. Individuals considered for upgrade
    must meet the mandatory requirements listed in the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
    (AFECD) and be recommended by their supervisor.

    5.3. Craftsman (7-Skill Level) Training. SSgt selects (no earlier than the first day of the promotion
    cycle) enter into 7-level UGT. A Fuels Craftsman earns the 7-skill level by completing the 2F071
    CDCs, obtains certification on 7- level core tasks, and serves 12 months in UGT (6 months for re-
    trainees). Individuals considered for upgrade must meet the mandatory requirements listed in the
    AFECD and be recommended by their supervisor. In addition, experience is mandatory in Fuels
    Service Center operations, training materiel control, fuels vehicle and equipment maintenance, and
    fuels laboratory functions.




                                                     11
    5.4. Superintendent (9-Skill Level) Training. The 9-skill level is awarded upon promotion to the
    rank of SMSgt. Also, experience in Fuels Operations such as mobile distribution, fuels hydrants, and
    understand the role and responsibilities of the Bulk Storage Contracting Officer Representative
    (COR); possess a working knowledge of Fuels Service Center (FSC) operations with a keen
    understanding of fuels accounting; be familiar with fuels laboratory and training requirements.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass
the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Fuels Career Field. The spectrum includes a strategy
for when, where, and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and
affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) determines what, when, and how training material is taught.
The training decisions for the Fuels CFETP were made during the U&TW held at Sheppard AFB, TX in
October 2012.

    6.1. Initial Skills Training. Minor changes were made to the course requirements to increase
    knowledge and understanding in certain areas such as gauging fuels storage tanks, using Automated
    Point of Sale Devices (APOSDs), and the deployment and use of the Tactical Automated Service
    Station (TASS). No other significant changes were made to the Fuels Apprentice Course.

    6.2. Five-Level Upgrade Training. Minor changes were made to the 5-skill level requirements.
    Specifically, the core task requirement was extended to cover all hydrant fuel systems versus just the
    Type III system in order to leverage resources and qualifications on those systems installed at home
    station locations. The core task requirement is applicable to the Type III, IV, or V Hydrant System
    installed at each base. Furthermore, key tasks such as isolating and disposing of contaminated
    products, performing trend analysis, and reclassifying the Quality Control (QC) Hold program as the
    caution tag program, to better align training requirements with the Fuels Management Flight’s
    lockout/tagout program.

    6.3. Seven-Level Upgrade Training. Minor changes were made to the 7-skill level training
    requirements. Specifically, it realigned disposing of contaminated products and performing trend
    analysis tasks under the lab section as 5-skill level core tasks.

    6.4. Computer Based Training (CBT) Course Prerequisites. Two new courses were introduced as
    prerequisites to the Petroleum Logistics Management Course (PLMC) [J3AZR2F091 00AB] and the
    Fuels Operational Readiness Capability Equipment (FORCE) course [J3AZR2F051 05AA]. The two
    CBTs are: 1) Mobility Readiness Spares Package (MRSP) and 2) Tactical Automated Service Station
    (TASS). Both CBTs are accessible through the Advanced Distributed Learning System (ADLS).

    6.5. Proficiency Training. Additional knowledge and skill requirements, which are not taught
    through initial skills or upgrade training, are accomplished through specialized course instructions. A
    significant change within this area was to transition the Refueling Equipment Maintenance Course
    [J3AZR2F051 03AB] from the Fuels Career Field to Vehicle Management. Refer to Part II, Section
    D, Training Course Index, of this CFETP for a listing of available AETC supplementary training
    courses.

    6.6. Wartime codes were removed from the Training Business Area (TBA) STS. All tasks trained in
    the 3-skill level Fuels Apprentice Course will be covered by adjusting academic instruction to 10
    hours a day, six days a week when required due to wartime surge periods.

    6.7. The Fuels CFM has determined 5- and 7-level core tasks will now require third-party
    certification in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.



                                                    12
6.8. Task Qualification Training (TQT). Training and certification of TQT will be accomplished 6.8.
Task Qualification Training (TQT). Training and certification of TQT will be accomplished IAW
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency
Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, AFI 36-2201, Force Training Program, and
AEF Online Tier 2A, Expeditionary Skills (ES) Proficiency Training/Tier 2B, Home Station Pre-
Deployment Training.

    6.8.1. Task standardization is key to TQT, ensuring readiness while in a Chemical, Biological,
    Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) environment. Utilizing the concept of “everyones a driver,”
    the tasks personnel will be trained and certified on include aircraft fuel servicing (issue/defuel)
    using the R-11 or R-12. These operations will be incorporated into the flight’s TQT Lesson Plan
    IAW AFI 23-201, Fuels Management.

    6.8.2. Prerequisites. CBRN Defense Awareness Course (CBT) and CBRN Defense Survival
    Course (Hands-on).

    6.8.3. Target Audience. Deployers, personnel going Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or
    Temporary Duty (TDY) for more than 20 days, to a Medium Threat Area (MTA) or High Threat
    Area (HTA) listed in AFI 10-2501, Table 4.1 or Threat Compendium, Worldwide Threat to
    Airbases. Individuals must be current in CBRN Defense Awareness/Survival at the time of
    departure and will be considered current for the duration of the assignment (less than 24 months)
    or TDY/Deployment (regardless of length). They will receive local conditions training when they
    arrive at the PCS or TDY/Deployment location within 30 days of arrival.

    6.8.4. TQT Training Frequency. 30 days after CBRN Defense Survival Course (Hands-on).

            6.8.4.1. Exercises. FMTs will ensure training is provided for individuals participating in
            exercises where operating in CBRN environment will be expected and not falling under
            the criteria outlined above.

            6.8.4.2. “In-Place Support.” Those personnel postured in a Unit Type Code (UTC) and
            P-Coded DP*/DX* as outlined in AFI 10-401, are not required to accomplish this
            training until the individual/UTC tasking changes.

    6.8.5. Delivery Format. FMTs will provide a TQT Lesson Plan that supervisors and trainers will
    utilize to train and evaluate individuals using the demonstration-performance objectives identified
    in paragraph 6.8.1.

    6.8.6. Full Credit Requirements. Individuals successfully complete the demonstrated-
    performance objective.

    6.8.7. Training will be documented in Business Systems Modernization - Energy (BSM-E).

6.9. Training Waivers. Training, course prerequisites, and skill level core task requirements that
personnel are unable to meet or achieve will require a training waiver. All training waivers will be
submitted to the Fuels Career Field Manager IAW AFI 36-2201 and AFI 23-201. Core task training
waivers are not required if the training capability does not exist at the assigned base or another base
within the local area. Annotate the member’s training record with the reason core task training was
not accomplished.




                                                 13
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of
basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences
Degree. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF also offers the following:

   7.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification training,
   consisting of the instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors who
   possess an associate degree or higher may be nominated by their school commander and commandant
   for the CCAF Instructor Certification.

   7.2. Degree Requirements. All Airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Upon
   completion of basic military training and assignment to an Air Force specialty field, active duty,
   ANG, and AFRC enlisted members may be placed in the degree program designed for their career
   field. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-skill level must be awarded and the following
   requirements must be met:

        Logistics Degree (1AMY)
                                   Degree Requirements                                  Semester Hours
         Technical Education                                                                 24
         Leadership, Management, and Military Studies                                         6
         Physical Education                                                                   4
         General Education                                                                   15
         Program Elective: Technical Education; Leadership, Management,
                                                                                                15
         and Military Studies; General Education
                                           Total Semester Hours for Degree                      64

       7.2.1. The Logistics Degree (1AMY) program is the specific CCAF Associate in Applied
       Sciences Degree program for 2F0X1 personnel. Paragraphs 7.2.2.1 through 7.2.2.6. below detail
       the various areas that can be used to satisfy the subject area semester hour requirements listed in
       paragraph 7.2.

       7.2.2. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours). Twenty-four semester hours are required to
       fulfill the technical education requirement. A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical Core
       subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from Technical
       Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses. Requests to substitute comparable courses or to
       exceed specified semester hour values in any subject or course must be approved in advance by
       the Academic Programs Division at CCAF.




                                                   14
7.2.2.1. Technical Core (12-24 Semester Hours):

                                                                          Max Semester
                         Technical Core Area
                                                                             Hours
  CCAF Internship                                                              18
  Contract Management                                                           3
  Cryogenic Operations                                                         10
  Distribution Management                                                      12
  Fuels Distribution                                                           15
  Inventory Management                                                         12
  Logistics Automated Systems                                                   9
  Logistics Management                                                         12
  Materiel Handling/Plant Layout                                                3
  Materiel Management                                                          12
  Principles of Accounting                                                      6
  Principles of Economics                                                       6
  Principles of Purchasing                                                      3
  Production/Operations Management                                              3
  Warehouse Storage & Operations                                                8

7.2.2.2. Technical Electives (0-12 Semester Hours):

                                                                          Max Semester
                      Technical Electives Area
                                                                             Hours
  Business Ethics                                                              3
  Business Law                                                                 3
  Business Mathematics/Statistics                                              3
  Computer Science                                                             3
  Environmental Protection Procedures                                          3
  General Chemistry                                                            4
  Hazardous Materials                                                          3
  Industrial Safety                                                            3
  Introduction to Business                                                     3
  Introduction to Petroleum Industry                                           3
  Introduction to Transportation                                               3
  Labor Relations                                                              3
  Leadership & Management                                                      3
  Managerial Communications                                                    3
  Medical Readiness                                                            3
  Principles of Marketing                                                      6
  Quality Assurance                                                            3
  Technical Writing                                                            3

7.2.2.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours). The
leadership, management, and military studies requirement may be satisfied by applying
Professional Military Education (PME), civilian courses accepted in transfer and/or testing




                                     15
      credit. However, the preferred method of completing leadership, management, and military
      studies is by attending Airman Leadership School, the NCO Academy, and/or SNCO
      Academy.

      7.2.2.4. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours). Completing Basic Military Training
      satisfies the 4-semester hour physical education requirement. Civilian courses do not apply
      to this requirement.

      7.2.2.5. General Education (15 Semester Hours). Applicable courses must meet the
      criteria for application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in
      agreement with the definitions of applicable General Education subject/courses as provided
      in the CCAF General Catalog.

                                                                                 Max Semester
                       General Education Subject/Course
                                                                                    Hours
        Oral Communication (Speech)                                                   3
        Written Communication (English Composition)                                   3
        Mathematics (Intermediate algebra or a college-level
                                                                                         3
        mathematics course)
        Social Science (Anthropology, Archaeology, Economics,
        Geography, Government, History, Political Science,                               3
        Psychology, and Sociology)
        Humanities (Courses in Fine Arts: Criticism, Appreciation
        and Historical Significance; Foreign Language, Literature,                       3
        Philosophy, and Religion)

      7.2.2.6. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours). Satisfied with applicable Technical
      Education; Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education subjects
      and courses, including natural science courses meeting GER application criteria. Six
      semester hours of CCAF degree applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this
      program may be applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the
      Associates of Applied Sciences degree for the Fuels specialty.

7.2.3. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice encouraged for all. Individuals desiring
to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed
faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools.

7.2.4. Air University Associate to Baccalaureate Cooperative (AU ABC). The AU ABC
initiative establishes a partnership between the Air Force and accredited civilian higher education
institutions to offer baccalaureate degree opportunities via distance learning. AU ABC links
Airmen who have completed Associate Degrees to military friendly baccalaureate programs. AU
ABC applies CCAF Associate Degree credit towards baccalaureate degrees and requires
participants to complete no more than 60 semester hours after having earned an Associate in
Applied Science degree.




                                            16
8. Fuels Career Field Manning & Career Path.

       8.1. Fuels Manning. The chart illustrates the grade allocation across the Fuels Career Field based on
       the number of personnel within each grade and the representative percentage of each grade when
       compared to the total manning. The data represents the current strength as of 30 September 2013.

       Figure 8.1. Fuels Manning Breakdown
                    1,000                                   27%
                     900

                     800       21%            22%

                     700
   2F0XX Assigned




                                                                           17%
                     600

                     500
                                                                                         11%
                     400

                     300
                                              761           947                          391
                                750                                        589
                     200
                                                                                                         2%             1%
                     100
                                                                                                                        32
                       0                                                                                 59
                               >A1C           SrA           SSgt           TSgt          MSgt          SMSgt         CMSgt

       8.2. Fuels Career Field Developmental Path. Establishing a viable and sustainable career path for
       our Airmen requires a deliberate approach and one focusing on opportunities across the spectrum of
       fuels operations where all Airmen have the ability to gain practical experience. Moreover, the path
       prescribes varying levels of fuels professional education as well as developmental education,
       targeting specific points in an Airman’s career. Defining developmental goals ensures we align job
       experience and educational opportunities to support the development of our force. The goals are
       outlined as follows:

                     8.2.1. Meet the Joint and Combatant Commander’s (CCMD) Needs. The goal ensures we
                     maintain our warfighting capability at the forefront of our training and development. We need to
                     have folks postured in the right positions with the right experience and education to meet the Joint
                     and Combatant Commander’s requirements.

                     8.2.2. Produce Capabilities to Accomplish the Mission. This goal substantiates our need for a
                     strong upgrade and on-the-job training program in order to equip our Airmen with the knowledge
                     and skills needed to be successful in their job.

                     8.2.3. Deliberately Develop Airmen. This goal leverages specific training and experience in
                     order to prepare our Airmen for future assignments. It recognizes previous duties and
                     responsibilities and allows leaders to provide further opportunities for developing Airmen using
                     education, duties, and assignments.




                                                                   17
   8.2.4. Maximize Return on Investment. Recognizing every dollar counts, the goal requires the
   balanced consideration of financial investment with capability when identifying individuals for
   professional education. This is also a key indicator when placing individuals into key fuels
   positions, providing an opportunity to exploit their talent and experience thereby maximizing the
   time and investment expended to provide the capability.

   8.2.5. Forecast Force Development Requirements. Education and training is a costly endeavor
   and to ensure courses are available to meet the needs of our community, we must forecast and
   budget for the right courses. This provides a sustainable approach to fuels force development.

   8.2.6. Provide Tools to Navigate Career. Developing tools to provide a roadmap for the career
   field ensures our Airmen have the ability to make informed decisions at specific points in their
   career. Taking advantage of the various automated capabilities will ensure these tools are
   available when and where they are needed the most.

   8.2.7. Ensure Members Understand Their Value. Training, education, and job opportunities
   provide Air Force members incentives and directly affect their outlook and contribute to their job
   accomplishment and satisfaction.

Figure 8.2. Fuels Specialist Career Development Path




                                              18
    8.3. Fuels Education and Training Path. Outlines training requirements for each skill level to
    include Professional Military Education and the functional training requirements within the Fuels
    specialty.

Table 8.3. Education and Training Requirements

                                                                       GRADE REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                  2F0X1   High Year
    Education & Training Requirements                                    Earliest
                                                               Rank               Average of Tenure
                                                                        Sew-On
                                                                                  Sew-On   (HYT)
Basic Military Training School                                  AB

                                                               Amn       6 months
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)
                                                               A1C      10 months
Upgrade to Journeyman (5-Skill Level)
   Minimum 12 months on-the-job
   Minimum 9 months on-the-job for retrainees
                                                               A1C      16 months
                                                                                     3 years        8 years
   Complete 2F051 CDCs
                                                               SrA      28 months
   Qualified on 5-level core tasks
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
   Must be SrA with 48 months time in service or be
    SSgt Select to attend
   Must be SrA with 42 months time in service to
    accomplish ALS by correspondence (ARC only)
   Resident graduation is prerequisite for SSgt sew-on
    (Active Duty only)
Upgrade to Craftsman (7-Skill Level)
   Minimum rank of SSgt
   Complete 7-level CDCs
   Qualified on 7-level core tasks
                                                               SSgt      3 years    5.1 years      15 years
   12 months OJT
   6 months OJT for retrainees
Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)
   Must be TSgt or TSgt selectee to attend
   Resident graduation is prerequisite for MSgt sew-on
    (Active Duty only)
                                                               TSgt      5 years    10.9 years     20 years
   Resident or correspondence graduation is a
    prerequisite for MSgt sew-on (ARC only)
Senior NCO Academy (SNCO)
   Must be MSgt or SMSgt selectee to attend
   Resident graduation is prerequisite for SMSgt sew-         MSgt      8 years    16.0 years     24 years
    on (Active Duty only)
   Resident or correspondence graduation is a
    prerequisite for SMSgt sew-on (ARC only)
Upgrade to Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
                                                               SMSgt    11 years    19.8 years     26 years
   Minimum rank of SMSgt
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)
   Minimum rank of CMSgt                                      CMSgt    14 years    23.9 years     30 years




                                                          19
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in the Fuels Career Field are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirement for each skill level
in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each
skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II,
Section A and B of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualifications.

    10.1. Apprentice (3-Skill Level) Training.

        10.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory regarding the composition, properties, and
        characteristics of petroleum products and cryogenics fluids including toxic, explosive, and fire
        hazards; environmental protection procedures; conservation; methods of receiving, storing,
        issuing, testing, and evaluating fuel and cryogenic fluids under normal conditions, operating in a
        bare-base environment, or in support of deployment and contingency operations.

        10.1.2. Training. For award of AFSC 2F031, completion of the resident Fuels Apprentice
        Course is mandatory.

        10.1.3. Other. For entry into this specialty, trainees must possess a valid state driver’s license to
        operate government motor vehicles (GMV) in accordance with AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations,
        and normal color vision as defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards. For
        award and retention, requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment and
        completion of a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks (NACLC) according to
        AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.

    10.2. Journeyman (5-Skill Level) Training.

        10.2.1. Knowledge. Qualification is mandatory in functions such as receipt, issue, and transfer
        operations from military service station, fuels hydrant system, and cryogenic storage; operating
        available mobile refueling vehicles and equipment, documenting fuels transactions for computer
        processing, and performing fuels quality control analysis on petroleum products.

        10.2.2. Training. Complete 2F051 CDCs, attain qualifications on 5-skill level core tasks, and be
        recommended by one’s supervisor.

        10.2.3. Experience. Possess and maintain proficiency at 2F031 skill level and perform a
        minimum of 12 months of OJT, beginning on the day the Apprentice enters upgrade training.

        10.2.4. Training Sources and Resources. 2F051 CDCs satisfies the knowledge requirements
        specified in the specialty qualifications section (above) for award of the 5-skill level. The
        STS/Master Training Plan lists the tasks that are trained in the CDC material.

        10.2.5. Implementation. Apprentices enter UGT upon assignment to their first duty station and
        build task experience while reinforcing the training from the Fuels Apprentice Course. They
        receive training on 3-level tasks and may perform 3-level tasks unsupervised once trained and
        certified on the task.




                                                     20
   10.2.6. Other. Possess or be eligible for a Secret security clearance (NACLC) in accordance
   with AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.

10.3. Craftsman (7-Skill Level) Training.

   10.3.1. Knowledge. Experience is mandatory in functions such as Fuels Service Center
   operations, training, material control, fuels vehicle and equipment maintenance, and fuels quality
   control.

   10.3.2. Training. Completion of 2F071 CDCs, attain qualifications on 7-skill level core tasks,
   and be recommended by one’s supervisor.

   10.3.3. Experience. Possession of AFSC 2F051, be in the grade of SSgt or higher, and perform
   a minimum of 12 months of OJT, beginning on the day the Journeyman enters upgrade training.

   10.3.4. Training Sources and Resources. 2F071 CDCs satisfy the required career knowledge
   training. The STS/Master Training Plan lists the tasks that are trained in the CDC materiel.
   Qualified trainers and certifiers provide the necessary qualification training and OJT.

   10.3.5. Implementation. A Craftsman enters UGT beginning 1 September each year if an
   individual is selected for promotion to E-5. The only exception is Stripes for Exceptional
   Performers (STEP).

   10.3.6. Other. Possess or be eligible for a Secret security clearance (NACLC) in accordance
   with AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management

10.4. Superintendent (9-Skill Level) Training.

   10.4.1. Knowledge. In addition to knowledge required for the 7-skill level qualification, an
   individual must possess advanced skills, knowledge of concepts, principles of leadership, and the
   effective management of Fuels operations and personnel. Experience in core Fuels Operations
   such as mobile distribution, fuels hydrants, as well as understand the role and responsibilities of
   the Bulk Storage Contracting Officer Representative (COR), be knowledgeable of Fuels Service
   Center operations with a keen understanding of fuels accounting and be familiar with fuels
   laboratory and training requirements.

   10.4.2. Training. Promotion to SMSgt is mandatory for award of the 9-skill level.

   10.4.3. Experience. Possession of AFSC 2F071.

   10.4.4. Implementation. Individual possesses the 7-skill level and assumes the rank of SMSgt.

   10.4.5. Other. Possess or be eligible for a Secret security clearance (NACLC) in accordance
   with AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.




                                               21
Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. To identify resource constraints that preclude reaching optimal and desired training from
being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations
of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what affect each constraint has on training
are included. Also included in this section are actions required, Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR),
and target completion dates. Resource constrains will be as a minimum reviewed and updated annually.

12. Training Constraints. There are no resource or training constraints that preclude reaching optimal
training objectives at this time.


Section E - Transitional Training Guide

There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.


PART II
Section A - Specialty Training Standards (STS)

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training by Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) for classes beginning 6 May 2014 and graduating 18 June 2014.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, and this STS:

    2.1. Column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) lists the most common tasks,
    knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for Airmen to perform duties at the 3-, 5-, and 7-
    skill level across the Fuels Career Field. These are based on analysis of the duties outlined in the Air
    Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD).

    2.2. Column 2 (5-skill level and 7-skill level ) identifies specialty-wide training requirements and are
    mandatory for upgrade. Core task training is not required if the training capability does not exist at
    the assigned base or another base within the local area. Annotate the member’s training record with
    the reason core task training was not accomplished.

    2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Use Column 3 to record completion of tasks and knowledge
    training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
    qualifications. Task certification must show a completion date.

    2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows proficiency to
    be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task and knowledge and the
    career knowledge provided by the correspondence course.

        2.4.1. Lists in column 4A (1) by the items demonstrated on the job proficiency by the graduate as
        a result of 3-level training received in the Fuels Apprentice Course (J3ABR2F031 00AB) and
        described on the Education & Training Course Announcement (ETCA) web page at
        https://etca.randolph.af.mil.




                                                    22
        2.4.2. Lists in column 4B (2), the career knowledge level provided in the mandatory 5-level
        exportable course. The Unit Training Monitor maintains a current listing of CDCs
        (AFIADL/CDC).

        2.4.3. Lists in column 4C (2), the career knowledge level provided in the mandatory 7-level
        exportable course. The Unit Training Monitor maintains a current listing of CDCs
        (AFIADL/CDC).

    2.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1, Qualitative Requirements for AFSC 2F0X1 STS,
    contains the proficiency code key used to indicate the level of training provided by resident training
    and career development courses.

    2.6. Is a guide for developing promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
    (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the AETC Airman Advancement
    Division by SNCOs with extensive practical experience in their career field. The tests sample
    knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test development team members to be most
    appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based on study references listed in the
    WAPS catalog. Test developer’s responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36- 2605, Air Force Military
    Personnel Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the Air Reserve Component (ARC).

3. Recommendations. Report unsatisfactory performance of individual course graduates to
782 TRG/TGAV, 826 G Avenue, Suite 4, Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2857. A customer service
information line has been installed for the supervisor’s convenience to identify graduates who may have
received over or under training on task/knowledge items listed in this training standard. For a quick
response to problems, call our Customer Service Information Line (CSIL), DSN 736-2574, anytime day
or night referencing the specific STS paragraph(s).

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL                                           JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                                   Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                   DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support

2 Attachments
1. Qualitative Requirements for AFSC 2F0X1 STS
2. STS 2F0X1




                                                    23
                        Attachment 1, Qualitative Requirements for AFSC 2F0X1 STS
STS 2F0X1                                                                                                                       October 2013
                                                This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only

 Name Of Trainee:

 Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial):                                  Initials (Written):             SSAN (Last Four)

                                          Printed Name of Certifying Official and Written Initials:

 N/I                                                                           N/I

 N/I                                                                           N/I

 N/I                                                                           N/I

 N/I                                                                           N/I

 N/I                                                                           N/I

 N/I                                                                           N/I

 N/I                                                                           N/I

 N/I                                                                           N/I

 N/I                                                                           N/I




                                                     QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                  Scale        Definition: The individual
                                  Value
                                            Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (Extremely
                                    1       Limited)
            Task                            Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts. (Partially Proficient)
                                   2
        Performance
           Levels                  3        Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (Competent)
                                            Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task.
                                   4        (Highly Proficient)
                                   a        Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (Nomenclature)
           *Task                   b        Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (Procedures)
        Knowledge                           Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
           Levels                  c        (Operating Principles)
                                   d        Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (Advanced Theory)
                                   A        Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (Facts)
         **Subject
                                   B        Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (Principles)
        Knowledge
           Levels                  C        Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (Analysis)
                                   D        Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (Evaluation)
                                                                EXPLANATIONS
         A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a
    *    specific task. (Example: b and 1b)
         A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
   **
         subject common to several tasks.
   -     This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the course or CDC.
   X     This mark is used alone in the course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources.
 NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.




                                                                      24
                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                              2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                             Core
               References                                                                         A               B               C
                                             Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                     Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                     Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

1. AFSC 2F0X1 CAREER LADDER PROGRESSION
TR: AFI 23-201, 2F0X1 CFETP, Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD)
1.1. 2F0X1 Career Ladder Progression                                                         B         -      -        -     -          -
2. AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY PROGRAM
TR: DoDI 6050.05, T.O. 00-25-172, T.O. 37-1-1, T.O. 42B6-1-1, AFI 23-201, AFI 90-821, AFI 91-203
2.1. Initial Federal Hazard Communication
                                                                                   A    -     -                        -     -          -
Training Program (FHCTP)
2.2. Hazards of Petroleum Products                                                           B         -      -       B      -          -

2.3. Hazards of Cryogenic Products                                                           B         -      -       B      -          -

2.4. Use Safety Precautions                   5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

2.5. Perform Continuity Check                                                                 -        -      -        b     -          -

2.6. Confined Spaces                                                                         B         -      -        -     -          -

3. PUBLICATIONS
TR: T.O. 00-5-1, AFI 63-101
3.1. Use Electronic / Printed Publications

3.1.1. Electronic Publications                5                                              b         -      -       B      -          -

3.1.2. Printed Publications                   5                                               -        -      -       B      -          -

3.2. Use Electronic / Printed Forms

3.2.1. Electronic Forms                       5                                              b         -      -       B      -          -

3.2.2. Printed Forms                          5                                              b         -      -       B      -          -

3.3. Publication Action
3.3.1. Post Changes / Supplements to
                                           7                                         -    -    -   -   - b
Printed Publications
3.3.2. TCTOs / Service Bulletins /
                                                                                     -    -    -   -   - B
Manufacturer's Recalls
4. FUELS FACILITIES / CRYOGENICS
TR: DoD 4140.25M, T.O. 00-20-1, T.O. 34Y5-Series, T.O. 35E22-Series, T.O. 36A11-Series, T.O. 37-1-1,
T.O. 37A-1-101, T.O. 37C11-Series, T.O. 37C2-8-Series, T.O. 42B-1-1, T.O. 42B-1-16, T.O. 42B-1-23,
T.O. 42B6-1-1, 40 CFR-series, AFI 10-206, AFI 23-201, AFI 23-204, AFI 23-502, AFI 31-101, AFI 32-7044,
AFI 91-203, DLA-Energy Interim Policy and Procedural Guidance, UFC-3-460-01, UFC 3-460-03, Operations and
Maintenance Manuals
4.1. Fuels Facilities
4.1.1. Military Service Station
4.1.1.1. Components                                                                          B         -      -       B      -          -

4.1.1.2. Inspect                              5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.1.3. Perform Operator Maintenance                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -




                                                             25
                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                            2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                           Core
               References                                                                       A               B               C
                                           Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                   Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

4.1.1.4. Perform General Service Station
Operations
4.1.1.4.1. Receive                          5                                              b         -      -        b     -          -

4.1.1.4.2. Issue                                                                            -        -      -        a     -          -

4.1.2. Hydrants

4.1.2.1. Components

4.1.2.1.1. Type I                                                                           -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.1.2. Type II                                                                          -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.1.3. Type III                                                                        B         -      -       B      -          -

4.1.2.1.4. Type IV                                                                          -        -      -       B      -          -

4.1.2.1.5. Type V                                                                           -        -      -       B      -          -

4.1.2.2. Inspect                                                                           2b        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.3 Perform Operator Maintenance                                                       2b        -      -        b     -          -
4.1.2.4. Perform General Hydrant
Operations
4.1.2.4.1. Receive with

4.1.2.4.1.1. Type I                                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.4.1.2. Type II                                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.4.1.3. Type III                       5                                              b         -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.1.4. Type IV                        5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.1.5. Type V                         5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.2. Issue with

4.1.2.4.2.1. Type I                                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.4.2.2. Type II                                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.4.2.3. Type III                       5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.2.4. Type IV                        5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.2.5. Type V                         5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.3. Transfer with

4.1.2.4.3.1. Type I                                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.4.3.2. Type II                                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -



                                                           26
                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                            2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                           Core
               References                                                                       A               B               C
                                           Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                   Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

4.1.2.4.3.3. Type III                       5                                              b         -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.3.4. Type IV                        5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.3.5. Type V                         5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.4. Defuel with

4.1.2.4.4.1. Type I                                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.4.4.2. Type II                                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.4.4.3. Type III                                                                      2b        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.5. Flush with

4.1.2.4.5.1. Type I                                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.4.5.2. Type II                                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

4.1.2.4.5.3. Type III                       5                                              b         -      -        b     -         b

4.1.2.4.5.4. Type IV                        5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.5.5. Type V                         5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.6. Static Pressure Test

4.1.2.4.6.1. Type III                       5                                              2b        -      -        b     -         b

4.1.2.4.6.2. Type IV                        5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.2.4.6.3. Type V                         5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -
4.1.2.4.7. Operate Hydrants to Receive a
                                            5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -
RTB from a Mobile Refueling Unit
4.1.2.4.8. Operate Hydrants to Receive a
                                            5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -
RTB from a Bowser
4.1.2.4.9. Operate Water Draw-off System    5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.3. Document Forms for

4.1.3.1. Receipt                            5                                              b         -      -        b     -          -

4.1.3.2. Transfer                           5                                              b         -      -        b     -          -

4.1.3.3. Inventory                          5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.3.4. Issue                              5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.3.5. Return to Bulk                     5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.3.6. Inspection/Maintenance             5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.3.7. Differential Pressure              5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -


                                                           27
                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                           2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                          Core
               References                                                                      A               B               C
                                          Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                  Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                  Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

4.1.4. Gauge Tanks

4.1.4.1. Manual                            5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

4.1.4.2. Automated                         5                                              2b        -      -        b     -         b

4.2. Cryogenics

4.2.1. Inspect Cryogenic Storage Area      5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

4.2.2. Cryotainers

4.2.2.1. Components                                                                       A         -      -       B      -          -

4.2.2.2. Inspect                           5                                              a         -      -        b     -         b

4.2.2.3. Perform Operator Maintenance                                                      -        -      -        -     -          -

4.2.2.4. Operate Cryotainers to

4.2.2.4.1. Receive                         5                                              a         -      -        b     -         b

4.2.2.4.2. Issue                           5                                              a         -      -        b     -         b

4.2.2.5. Perform Quality Control on LOX

4.2.2.5.1. Perform Odor Test               5                                              a         -      -        a     -         b

4.2.2.5.2. Perform Particulate Test        5                                              a         -      -        a     -         b

4.2.2.5.3. Draw Cryogenic Samples          5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

4.2.3. Cryotainer Support Equipment

4.2.3.1. Vacuum Pump

4.2.3.1.1. Principles                                                                      -        -      -       B      -          -

4.2.3.1.2. Inspect                                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

4.2.3.1.3. Operate                                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

4.2.3.1.4. Maintain                                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

4.2.3.2. Purge Unit

4.2.3.2.1. Principles                                                                      -        -      -       B      -          -

4.2.3.2.2. Inspect                                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

4.2.3.2.3. Operate                                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

4.2.3.2.4. Maintain                                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

4.2.4. Document Forms for

4.2.4.1. Receipt                           5                                              a         -      -        a     -         b

                                                          28
                                                                                          4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                         2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                    Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                        Core
               References                                                                    A               B               C
                                        Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

4.2.4.2. Issue                            5                                             a         -      -        a     -         b

4.2.4.3. Inventory                        5                                             a         -      -        a     -         b

4.2.4.4. Inspection / Maintenance         5                                             a         -      -        a     -         b

4.2.4.5. Historical Data                  5                                              -        -      -        a     -         b
5. DISTRIBUTION
TR: T.O. 00-25-172, T.O. 35-1-3, T.O. 36-1-191, T.O. 36A12-13-Series, T.O. 36A12-23- 3, T.O. 37-1-1,
T.O. 37A-1-101, T.O. 37A2-2-4-Series, AFI 21-101, AFI 23-201, AFI 91-203, DLA-Energy Interim Policy and
Procedural Guidance, APOSD User Manual, Scully User Manual
5.1. Mobile Distribution

5.1.1. Components

5.1.1.1. Mobile Refueling Units                                                         B         -      -       B      -          -

5.1.1.2. Hydrant Servicing Units                                                        B         -      -       B      -          -

5.1.1.3. Ground Servicing Units                                                         B         -      -       B      -          -

5.1.2. Drive Servicing Units

5.1.2.1. Mobile Refueling Units           5                                             2b        -      -        b     -          -

5.1.2.2. Hydrant Servicing Units          5                                              -        -      -        -     -          -

5.1.2.3. Ground Servicing Units           5                                              -        -      -        -     -          -
5.1.3. Perform General Servicing
Operations
5.1.3.1. Issue

5.1.3.1.1. Aviation Fuel                  5                                             2b        -      -        b     -          -

5.1.3.1.2. Ground Fuel                    5                                             2b        -      -        b     -          -

5.1.3.2. Defuel Aviation Fuel             5                                             2b        -      -        b     -          -

5.1.3.3. Receive from Bulk

5.1.3.3.1. Aviation Fuel                  5                                             2b        -      -        b     -          -

5.1.3.3.2. Ground Fuel                    5                                              -        -      -        b     -          -

5.1.3.4. Return to Bulk                   5                                             2b        -      -        b     -          -

5.1.3.5. Overfill Protection Systems

5.1.3.5.1. Principles                                                                   B         -      -       B      -          -

5.1.3.5.2. Components                                                                   B         -      -       B      -          -




                                                        29
                                                                                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                                       2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                                  Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                                      Core
               References                                                                                  A               B               C
                                                      Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                              Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                              Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

5.1.4. Perform Special Operations

5.1.4.1. Hot Refuel                                                                                   a         -      -        b     -         b

5.1.4.2. Hot / Rapid Defuel                                                                           a         -      -        b     -         b
5.1.4.3. Supporting Combat Sortie
Generation (CSO / CSG) (A-10, F-15,                                                                   a         -      -        b     -         b
F-16, F-22)
5.1.4.4. In-Shelter Refueling                                                                         a         -      -        b     -         b
5.1.4.5. Concurrent Servicing
                                                                                                      a         -      -        b     -         b
(Cargo / Passenger Aircraft)
5.1.4.6. Multi-Source Refuel                                                                          a         -      -        b     -         b

5.1.4.7. CBRN Task Qualification Training
                                                                                                       -        -      -        -     -          -
(TQT) (R-11 Issue / Defuel or R-12 Issue / Defuel )

5.1.5. Document Forms

5.1.5.1. Issue                                         5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

5.1.5.2. Defuel                                        5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

5.1.5.3. Return to Bulk                                5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -

5.1.5.4. Differential Pressure                         5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -
5.1.6. Use APOSD to Document
                                                       5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -
Transactions
5.1.7. Perform Expediter Duties                        7                                               -        -      -        b     -         b
6. FUELS INFORMATION SERVICE CENTER (FISC)
TR: CJCSM 3150.14B, DoD 4140.25M, T.O. 33D2-10-60-1, T.O. 33D2-10-60-11, T.O. 37-1-1, T.O. 42B-1-1,
T.O. 42B-1-16, T.O. 42B-1-22, T.O. 42B-1-23, T.O. 42B1-1-16, T.O. 42B2-1-3, T.O. 42B6-1-1, AFI 10-401,
AFI 10-403, AFI 23-201, AFI 23-204, AFI 31-101, AFI 32-1063, AFI 33-106, AFI 33-364, AFI 64-11, AFI 91-202, AFI
91-203, MIL STD 3004, DLA-Energy Interim Policy and Procedural Guidance, DLA-Energy Base Level User’s
Manual, JCS Website, Applicable ASTM
6.1. Organizational Responsibilities

6.1.1. Base Level                                                                                      -        -      -       A      -         B

6.1.2. Outside Agencies                                                                                -        -      -       A      -         B

6.2. Fuels Service Center Operations
6.2.1. Verify Accuracy of Documentation
for
6.2.1.1. Receipt                                                                                       -        -      -        -     -         -

6.2.1.2. Inventory                                                                                     -        -      -        -     -         -

6.2.1.3. Issue                                                                                         -        -      -        -     -         -

6.2.1.4. Defuel                                                                                        -        -      -        -     -         -



                                                                      30
                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                              2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                         Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                             Core
               References                                                                         A               B               C
                                             Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                     Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                     Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

6.2.1.5. Return to Bulk                                                                       -        -      -        -     -         -

6.2.1.6. Transfer                                                                             -        -      -        -     -         -

6.2.2. Prepare REPOL Reports                  7                                               -        -      -        -     -         b

6.2.3. Use BSM-E to

6.2.3.1. Complete Logs                        7                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.2.3.2. Maintain / Update Status             7                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.2.3.3. Dispatch and Control Operations      7                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.2.3.4. Input Transactions                   7                                               -        -      -        a     -         b

6.2.3.5. Generate Queries                     7                                               -        -      -        a     -         b

6.2.3.6. Clear Transaction Rejects            7                                               -        -      -        -     -         b

6.2.3.7. Reconcile Accounts                   7                                               -        -      -        -     -         b

6.2.4. Configure and Maintain APOSD           7                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.2.5. Generate Reports

6.2.5.1. 1884 Inventory Report                7                                               -        -      -        -     -         b

6.2.5.2. Non-DoD Sales Report                 7                                               -        -      -        -     -         b

6.2.6. Use Fuels Manager to

6.2.6.1. Monitor Product Levels / Movement    7                                               -        -      -        a     -         b

6.2.6.2. Acknowledge Alarms                   7                                               -        -      -        a     -         b

6.2.7. Cash Sales

6.2.7.1. Cash Sale Process                    7                                               -        -      -        -     -         -

6.2.7.2. Collection Procedures                7                                               -        -      -        -     -         -

6.2.8. Investigate Fuel Gains or Losses       7                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.2.9. Monitor IMP / WCDO / MEL Levels        7                                               -        -      -        -     -         b

6.2.10. Prepare Requisitions                  7                                               -        -      -        -     -         b

6.2.11. Maintain DLA Energy Files             7                                               -        -      -        -     -         b

6.2.12. Review Aircraft Flying Schedules      7                                               -        -      -        a     -         b
6.2.13. Determine Authorizations for
                                              7                                               -        -      -        a     -         b
Sales to Non-DoD Aircraft
6.2.14. Encode VIL Keys                       7                                               -        -      -        b     -         b



                                                             31
                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                            2.      3. Certification For OJT               Training/Information Provided (See Note)
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
                                           Core
               References                                                                       A               B               C
                                           Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                   Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

6.2.15. Maintain Vehicle Clipboards         7                                               -        -      -        a     -         b
6.2.16. Control Personal Wireless
                                            7                                               -        -      -        b     -         b
Communication Systems (PWCS)
6.2.17. Initiate Emergency Response
                                            7                                               -        -      -        b     -         b
Actions
6.3. Lab

6.3.1 Draw Fuel Samples                     5                                               -        -      -        b     -          -

6.3.2. Ship Samples
6.3.2.1. Prepare Laboratory Samples
                                                                                            -        -      -        b     -         b
for Shipment
6.3.2.2. Document Forms for Shipment                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

6.3.2.3. Use AFTAT to Document Shipping
                                                                                            -        -      -        b     -          -
of QC Samples
6.3.3. Perform Visual Analysis on
                                            5                                              2b        -      -        b     -          -
Fuel Samples
6.3.4. Contaminated Products

6.3.4.1. Isolate                            5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.4.2. Dispose                            5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b
6.3.5. Perform Analysis on Aviation /
Ground Fuel Samples
6.3.5.1. API Gravity                        5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.5.2. Solids Determination

6.3.5.2.1. Bottle Method                    5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.5.2.2. Color and Particle Assessment    5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.5.2.3. Matched Weight                   5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.5.3. Water Content                      5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.5.4. Fiber Detection                    5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.5.5. Conductivity                       5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.5.6. FSII Content                       5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.5.7. Flashpoint                         5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.5.8. Cloud Point / Cold Pour Point                                                      -        -      -        b     -         b

6.3.5.9. Freeze Point                                                                       -        -      -        b     -         b




                                                           32
                                                                                               4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                              2.      3. Certification For OJT               Training/Information Provided (See Note)
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
                                             Core
               References                                                                         A               B               C
                                             Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                     Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                     Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

6.3.6. Use BSM-E to

6.3.6.1. Record / Review Test Results         5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b
6.3.6.2. Record Lockout / Tagout
                                              5                                              a         -      -        b     -         b
(Caution Tag) Placement
6.3.6.3. Perform Trend Analysis               5                                               -        -      -        b     -         b

6.4. Fuels Support

6.4.1. Material Control Program                                                               -        -      -       A      -         B

6.4.2. Mobility Management Program                                                            -        -      -       A      -         B

6.4.3. Fuels Training Program                                                                 -        -      -       A      -         B
7. FUELS ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY OFFICE
TR: AFI 10-206, AFI 23-201, AFI 23-204, AFI 23-502, AFI 32-7044, AFI 91-203, AFI 91-204,
UFC 3-460-01, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Applicable CFRs, Federal, State, Local, or Foreign
Governmental Laws and Regulations
7.1.. Environmental

7.1.1. Environmental Pollution Precautions                                                   A         -      -       A      -         B

7.2. Conduct Environmental Inspections

7.2.1. Internal                                                                               -        -      -        -     -         b

7.2.2. External                                                                               -        -      -        -     -         b

7.3. Environmental Coordination

7.3.1. Base Level                                                                             -        -      -       A      -         B

7.3.2. Outside Agencies                                                                       -        -      -       A      -         B

7.4. Safety Program

7.4.1. Manage Lockout / Tagout Program                                                        -        -      -       A      -         B

7.4.2. Conduct Safety Inspections                                                             -        -      -       A      -         B
8. CONTINGENCY / FUELS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT (FSE)
TR: CJCSM 3150.14B, DoD 4140.25M, T.O. 35E13-73- Series, T.O. 37A8-2-5-Series, T.O. 37A8-2-9-1,
T.O. 37A9-3-5-Series, T.O. 37A9-3-15-1, T.O. 37C2-8-10-3, T.O. 37C2-8-1-127, T.O. 42-Series, AFI 10-401, AFI 10-402,
AFI 10-403, AFI 23-201, AFI 23-110, AFI 25-101, AFPAM 23-221, FAM Cart Manual, DLA Energy Polices and Procedural
Guidance, Joint Operation Planning and Execution System (JOPES)

8.1. R-18 Pumping Unit

8.1.1. Purpose                                                                                -        -      -       B      -          -

8.1.2. Components                                                                            A         -      -       B      -          -

8.1.3. Inspect                                                                               2b        -      -        b     -         b


                                                             33
                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                           2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                          Core
               References                                                                      A               B               C
                                          Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                  Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                  Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

8.1.4. Set-up                                                                             2b        -      -        b     -         b

8.1.5. Operate                                                                            b         -      -        b     -         b

8.1.6. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                   2b        -      -        b     -         b

8.2. R-19 Filter Separator Unit

8.2.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.2.2. Components                                                                         A         -      -       B      -          -

8.2.3. Inspect                                                                            2b        -      -        b     -         b

8.2.4. Set-up                                                                             2b        -      -        b     -         b

8.2.5. Operate                                                                            b         -      -        b     -         b

8.2.6. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                   2b        -      -        b     -         b
8.3. R-20 Multi-Aircraft Servicing
Platform
8.3.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.3.2. Components                                                                         A         -      -       B      -          -

8.3.3. Inspect                                                                            2b        -      -        b     -         b

8.3.4. Set-up                                                                             2b        -      -        b     -         b

8.3.5. Operate                                                                            b         -      -        b     -         b

8.3.6. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                   2b        -      -        b     -         b

8.4. R-21 Plumbing Assembly

8.4.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.4.2. Components                                                                         A         -      -       B      -          -

8.4.3. Inspect                                                                            2b        -      -        b     -         b

8.4.4. Set-up                                                                             2b        -      -        b     -         b

8.5. FFU-15E Filter Separator

8.5.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.5.2. Components                                                                          -        -      -       B      -          -

8.5.3. Inspect                                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

8.5.4. Set-up                                                                              -        -      -        b     -          -

8.5.5. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                    -        -      -        b     -          -



                                                          34
                                                                                            4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                           2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                      Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                          Core
               References                                                                      A               B               C
                                          Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                  Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                  Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

8.6. PMU-27M Air Transportable Trailer
Mounted Refueling System / UTC JFDEK
8.6.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.6.2. Components                                                                         A         -      -       B      -          -

8.6.3. Inspect                                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

8.6.4. Set-up                                                                             b         -      -        b     -          -

8.6.5 Operate                                                                             b         -      -        b     -          -

8.6.6. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                   b         -      -        b     -          -
8.7. R-14 Air Transportable Hydrant
Refueling System
8.7.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.7.2. Components                                                                          -        -      -       B      -          -

8.7.3. Inspect                                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

8.7.4. Set-up                                                                              -        -      -        b     -          -

8.7.5. Operate                                                                             -        -      -        b     -          -

8.7.6. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                    -        -      -        b     -          -
8.8. R-22 Trailer Mounted Transfer Pump
Assembly
8.8.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.8.2. Components                                                                         A         -      -       B      -          -

8.8.3. Inspect                                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

8.8.4. Set-up                                                                             b         -      -        b     -          -

8.8.5. Operate                                                                            b         -      -        b     -          -

8.8.6. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                   b         -      -        b     -          -

8.9. Portable Additive Injector
8.9.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.9.2. Components                                                                         A         -      -       B      -          -

8.9.3. Inspect                                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

8.9.4. Set-up                                                                             b         -      -        b     -          -

8.9.5. Calibrate                                                                          a         -      -        b     -          -

8.9.6. Operate                                                                            b         -      -        b     -          -



                                                          35
                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                            2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                           Core
               References                                                                       A               B               C
                                           Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                   Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

8.9.7. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                    b         -      -        b     -          -
8.10. Aerial Bulk Fuels Delivery System
(ABFDS)
8.10.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.10.2. Components                                                                         A         -      -       B      -          -

8.10.3. Inspect                                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

8.10.4. Set-up                                                                              -        -      -        -     -          -

8.10.5. Operate                                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

8.10.6. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                    -        -      -        -     -          -

8.11. Air Transportable Cryotainers

8.11.1. Prepare for Shipment                                                                -        -      -        b     -          -

8.11.2. Prepare Shipping Documents                                                          -        -      -        b     -          -

8.12. Overboard Vent Kit

8.12.1. Install                                                                             -        -      -        b     -          -

8.12.2. Inspect                                                                             -        -      -        b     -          -

8.12.3. Maintain                                                                            -        -      -        b     -          -

8.12.4. Prepare for Storage                                                                 -        -      -        b     -          -

8.13. Forward Area Manifold (FAM) Cart

8.13.1. Purpose                                                                            A         -      -       B      -          -

8.13.2. Components                                                                         A         -      -       B      -          -

8.13.3. Inspect                                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

8.13.4. Set-up                                                                              -        -      -        -     -          -

8.13.5. Operate                                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

8.13.6. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                    -        -      -        -     -          -
8.14. Fuel Bladders (Coated Fabric &
500-gal Collapsible Drum)
8.14.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.14.2. Components                                                                         A         -      -       B      -          -

8.14.3. Inspect                                                                            1b        -      -        b     -          -

8.14.4. Set-up                                                                             1b        -      -        b     -          -

8.14.5. Inventory                                                                          b         -      -        b     -          -

                                                           36
                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                            2.      3. Certification For OJT
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical                                                       Training/Information Provided (See Note)
                                           Core
               References                                                                       A               B               C
                                           Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level
                                                   Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

8.14.6. Repair                                                                             b         -      -        b     -         b
8.15. Tactical Automated Service Station
(TASS)
8.15.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -       B      -          -

8.15.2. Components                                                                         B         -      -       B      -          -

8.15.3. Inspect                                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

8.15.4. Set-up                                                                            b/2b       -      -        b     -          -

8.15.5. Operate                                                                            b         -      -        b     -          -

8.15.6. Reconstitute / Prep for Shipment                                                  b/2b       -      -        b     -          -
8.16. Mobility Readiness Spares Package
(MRSP)
8.16.1. Management                                                                          -        -      -        -     -          -

8.16.2. Accountability                                                                      -        -      -        -     -          -

8.17. Fuels Mobility Site Planning

8.17.1. Purpose                                                                             -        -      -        -     -         B

8.17.2. Perform                                                                             -        -      -        -     -         b

8.17.3. Unit Type Codes (UTCs)                                                              -        -      -       A      -         B

8.17.4. Resupply                                                                            -        -      -        -     -         B

8.17.5. Sourcing                                                                            -        -      -        -     -         B
9. MAINTENANCE
TR: AFI 23-201, AFI 24-301, AFI 24-302, T.O. 00-5-15, T.O. 36-1-191, T.O. 35E13-82-11, T.O. 36A-12-series,
T.O. 36Y-series, T.O. 37A-series, T.O. 37A8-2- 9-1, T.O. 37A9-series, T.O. 37A12-15-1
9.1. Maintenance Fundamentals

9.1.1. Fuel Dispensing Systems

9.1.1.1. Mobile Refueling Units                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

9.1.1.2. Hydrant Servicing Units                                                            -        -      -        -     -          -

9.1.1.3. FSE                                                                                -        -      -        -     -          -

9.1.2. Hydraulic Systems

9.1.2.1. Mobile Refueling Units                                                             -        -      -        -     -          -

9.1.2.2. Hydrant Servicing Units                                                            -        -      -        -     -          -

9.1.2.3. FSE                                                                                -        -      -        -     -          -




                                                           37
                                                                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                        2.      3. Certification For OJT               Training/Information Provided (See Note)
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
                                       Core
               References                                                                   A               B               C
                                       Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                               Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                               Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

9.1.3. Pneumatic Systems

9.1.3.1. Mobile Refueling Units                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

9.1.3.2. Hydrant Servicing Units                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

9.1.3.3. FSE                                                                            -        -      -        -     -          -

9.1.4. Electrical Systems

9.1.4.1. Mobile Refueling Units                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

9.1.4.2. Hydrant Servicing Units                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

9.1.4.3. FSE                                                                            -        -      -        -     -          -

9.2. Inspect

9.2.1. Mobile Refueling Units            5                                             2b        -      -        b     -          -

9.2.2. Hydrant Servicing Units           5                                             2b        -      -        b     -          -

9.2.3. General Purpose Vehicles          5                                              -        -      -        -     -          -

9.3. Perform Sump Sample Analysis        5                                              -        -      -        -     -          -
9.4. Perform Operator Maintenance on
                                         5                                             2b        -      -        b     -         b
Fuel Servicing Vehicles / Equipment
9.5. Troubleshoot Malfunctions

9.5.1. Fuel Dispensing Systems

9.5.1.1. Mobile Refueling Units                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

9.5.1.2. Hydrant Servicing Units                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

9.5.1.3. FSE                                                                            -        -      -        -     -          -

9.5.2. Hydraulic Systems

9.5.2.1. Mobile Refueling Units                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

9.5.2.2. Hydrant Servicing Units                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

9.5.2.3. FSE                                                                            -        -      -        -     -          -

9.5.3. Pneumatic Systems

9.5.3.1. Mobile Refueling Units                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -

9.5.3.2. Hydrant Servicing Units                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

9.5.3.3. FSE                                                                            -        -      -        -     -          -
9.5.4. Electrical Systems
9.5.4.1. Mobile Refueling Units                                                         -        -      -        -     -          -


                                                       38
                                                                                             4. Proficiency Codes Used To Indicate
                                            2.      3. Certification For OJT               Training/Information Provided (See Note)
   1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical
                                           Core
               References                                                                       A               B               C
                                           Tasks    A       B       C       D       E      3 Skill Level   5 Skill Level   7 Skill Level

                                                   Trng    Trng   Trainee Trainer Certifier (1)      (2) (1)    (2) (1)              (2)
                                                   Start   Done   Initials Initials Initials Course CDC Course CDC Course           CDC

9.5.4.2. Hydrant Servicing Units                                                            -        -      -        -     -          -

9.5.4.3. FSE                                                                                -        -      -        -     -          -
9.6. Remove, Repair, Adjust, and
Install Components
9.6.1. Victaulics                                                                           -        -      -        -     -          -

9.6.2. Gauges                                                                               -        -      -        -     -          -

9.6.3. Deadman Controls                                                                     -        -      -        -     -          -

9.6.4. Sensing Lines                                                                        -        -      -        -     -          -

9.6.5. Valves                                                                               -        -      -        -     -          -

9.6.6. Emergency Shutoff                                                                    -        -      -        -     -          -

9.6.7. Filter Separator Elements                                                            -        -      -        -     -          -

9.6.8. Refueling Nozzles                                                                    -        -      -        -     -          -

9.6.9. Calibrate Meters                                                                     -        -      -        -     -          -

9.7. Perform Maintenance on Hoses

9.7.1. Remove and Replace Fueling Hoses                                                     -        -      -        -     -          -

9.7.2. Perform Hydrostatic Hose Tests                                                       -        -      -        -     -          -

9.8. Tool Control Program                                                                   -        -      -       A      -         B
9.9. Document Forms for Inspection /
Maintenance
9.9.1. Special Purpose Vehicles                                                            2b        -      -        b     -          -

9.9.2. FSE                                                                                  -        -      -        -     -          -

9.9.3. General Purpose Vehicles                                                             -        -      -        a     -          -

9.10. Scheduled Maintenance

9.10.1. Limited Technical Inspections                                                       -        -      -        -     -          -
9.10.2. Scheduled / Special / Concurrent
                                                                                            -        -      -        -     -          -
Inspections




                                                           39
Section B - Course Objective List

4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates a task or subject knowledge, which is
measured using a written test. PC indicates a required subject knowledge or task performance, which is measured
with a progress check. P indicates required task performance, which is measured with a performance test. PC/W
indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and performance elements using a written test and a
performance progress check.

5. Standard. The standard on written examinations varies by course and block of instruction, but is no lower than
70%. Standards for task performance progress checks are indicated in the objective and delineated on the
individual progress checklist. Instructor assistance, if allowed, is provided as needed during the progress check.
Students failing to perform satisfactorily may be required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory
performance is attained.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which means the student can
do most parts of the task but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student
can also determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.

7. Course Objectives, Initial Skills Course. A detailed listing of initial skill course objectives may be obtained
by submitting a written request to the schoolhouse Training Manager, 364 TRS/TRR, 511 9th Avenue STE 1,
Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2338.


Section C - Support Material

8. Support Material. There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.


Section D - Training Course Index

9. In-Residence Courses. The following provides a listing of training courses available to the Fuels Career Field
and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career training programs. The Education and
Training Course Announcement (ETCA) website provides detailed information on locating training opportunities
and can be accessed at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.

    Course Number                                     Course Title                                   Location
   J3ABR2F031 00AB                                  Fuels Apprentice                            Sheppard AFB, TX
   J3AZR2F051 02AA                    Aerial Bulk Fuel Delivery System (ABFDS)                  Sheppard AFB, TX
   J3AZR2F051 04AA                  Cryotainer Maintenance and Support Equipment                Sheppard AFB, TX
   J3AZR2F051 05AA           Fuels Operational Readiness Capability Equipment (FORCE)           Sheppard AFB, TX
   J3AZR2F091 00AB                 Petroleum Logistics Management Course (PLMC)                 Sheppard AFB, TX

10. Interservice Courses. The following lists the in-resident interservice supplemental courses available to
personnel in the Fuels Career Field:

    Course Number                      Course Title                    Location                    Users
   J9AZA2F051 01AA           Petroleum Laboratory Specialist         Fort Lee, VA          USA, USAF, USMC
   J3AZP2F051 01AA                Fuels Quality Control              Fort Lee, VA                  USAF




                                                          40
11. Contractor-Developed Courses. The following lists the contractor-developed/operated supplemental courses
available to personnel in the Fuels Career Field:

                           Course Title                                   Location               Users
              Joint BSM-E Three Week Basic Course                      Buckhead, GA           All Services
  Joint BSM-E Terminal Managers & Responsible Officers Course          Buckhead, GA           All Services

12. Exportable Courses. The following lists the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributive Learning
(AFIADL) exportable courses available to personnel in the Fuels Career Field:

    Course Number                       Course Title                 Volumes of CDCs             Users
       CDC 2F051                      Fuels Journeyman                        5                  USAF
       CDC 2F071                      Fuels Craftsman                         3                  USAF

13. Courses under Development/Revision.

    Course Number                       Course Title                      Location               Users
   J3AZP2F051 01AA                  Fuels Quality Control               Fort Lee, VA             USAF


Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements

14. The following list of MAJCOM unique courses is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently
referenced areas: Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) SEI 035 awarding course.

    Course Number                       Course Title                      Location               Users
          N/A              Forward Area Refueling Point (FARP)       Hurlburt Field, FL       AFSOC/ACC




                                                        41
