DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                              CFETP 1T2XX
Headquarters, US Air Force                                               Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1480                                                 15 May 2008

                                 AFSC 1T2XX

                    PARARESCUE SPECIALTY




                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION

                        AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                     Table of Contents


PART I

Preface………………………………………………………………………………………….                                  1

Abbreviations/Terms Explained……………………………………………………………...                     2

Section A: General Information……………………………………………………………....                   5
        Purpose of the Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)
        Uses
        Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

      Pararescue Pipeline Training Requirements (Figure 1)…………………………….      6

Section B: Career Field Progression and Information………………………………………          7
        Specialty Descriptions
                Pararescue Superintendent /Senior Enlisted Manager (SEM)
                Pararescue Craftsman
                Pararescue Journeyman
                Pararescue Apprentice

      Skill/Career Progression
              Apprentice Level (3)
             Journeyman Level (5)
             Craftsman Level (7)
             Superintendent Level (9)

      Training Criteria ……………………………………………………………………                         10

      Community College of the Air Force Programs…………………………………… 11

     Career Field Path……………………….…………………………………………….                         13

Section C: Skill Level Training Requirements……………………………………………… 13
        Purpose
        Specialty Qualification
                Apprentice Level (3)
                Journeyman Level (5)
                Craftsman Level (7)
                Superintendent/Senior Enlisted Manager Level (9/SEM)

Section D: Resource Constraints…………………………………………………………….                    16

Section E: Transitional Training Guide…………………………………………………….                16




                                            ii
PART II

Section A: Specialty Training Standard (STS)…………………………………………….. 16
        - Implementation
        - Purpose
        - Documentation
        - Certification and De-certification Procedures
        - Training Standard
        - Trainer/Certifying Official Identification Form……………………………… 24
        - Behavioral Statements Coding System…………………………………………… 25
        - Specialty Index……………………………………………………………………... 26

Section B: Course Objective List……………………………………………………………               42

Section C: Support Materials………………………………………………………………..                42

Section D: Training Course Index…………………………………………………………..              42

Section E: MAJCOM Unique Requirements……………………………………………….              45

Supersedes: CFETP1T2X1, 15 November 2005
OPR: 342 TRS/DORM
Certified By: HQ USAF/A3O-AS (CMSgt Ryan Beckmann)
Pages: 56




                                              iii
                                      PARARESCUE SPECIALTY
                                           AFSC 1T2X1
                            CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

Part I

Preface

1. IAW AFPD 16-12, Pararescue and AFPD 10-35, Battlefield Airmen, 1TX21 is a Battlefield Airmen career field that
operates as a component of the Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) force or part of Air Force Special Operations
Command Special Tactics Teams (STS) to provide Joint Force Commanders the capability to recover combat aircrews
and other isolated personnel. They also provide survival and evasion assistance, emergency and field trauma care, and
security. Pararescue forces are capable of moving objectives (personnel and materiel) to safety or friendly control when
direct recovery by aircraft is not possible. This Pararescue Specialty (PJ) Career Field Education and Training Plan
(CFETP) is a comprehensive core training document that identifies life-cycle training/education requirements, support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 1T2X1 specialty. The plan is a "training road map" for the career
field. It provides personnel a clear career path to success and makes career field training identifiable, measurable, and
budget defensible. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors use both parts of the plan in order to plan, manage, and control training
within the career field.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains how everyone
will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies,
and career field path. Section C associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and
other). Section D indicates resource constraints (e.g., funds, manpower, equipment, and facilities). Section E identifies
transition training guide requirements for staff sergeant through master sergeant.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the specialty training standard (STS) and includes duties, tasks,
and technical references to support training. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime
course (NOTE: Pararescue pipeline pre-requisite training and Pararescue Apprentice Course do not change for wartime),
and core task and correspondence course requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and training standards
supervisors will use to determine if airmen satisfy training requirements. Section C identifies available support materials.
Examples are: qualification training packages (QTP), which may be developed to support proficiency training; task,
conditions, and standards (TCS) identify criterion objectives; and syllabi of instruction (SOI) to standardize on-the-job
training (OJT) across the force. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can use to determine resources
available to support training. Both mandatory and optional courses are listed. Section E identifies MAJCOM-unique
training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive effective and efficient training
at the appropriate points in their career. This plan enables the career field to train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.
At unit level, supervisors and trainers use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training commensurate with the overall
goals of this plan.




                                                              1
ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training (AT). A formal course that provides individuals who are qualified in one or more positions of their
Air Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills and knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career field. Training is
for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS, after award of AFSC.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). The individual charged with the responsibility for overseeing all training
and career field management aspects of an Air Force Specialty.

Air Force Specialty. A group of positions requiring common qualification. Each AFS has a title and code.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard/Command Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS/CJQS). A comprehensive
task list, which describes a particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use them to document task qualifications.
The tasks on AFJQS/CJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Allocation Curves. The relation of hours of training in different training settings, to the degree of proficiency, which can
be achieved on specified performance requirements.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive, multipurpose document,
encapsulating the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a logical growth plan that
includes training resources, and is designed to make career field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to
ensure this training is budget defensible.

Career Training Guide (CTG). A document that uses Task Modules (TMs) in lieu of tasks to define performance and
training requirements for a career field.

Continuation Training.       Additional training that exceeds requirements with emphasis on present or future duty
assignments.

Core Task. Tasks the AFCFM identify as minimum qualification requirements within the AFSC, regardless of duty
position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill level or in general across the AFSC. Guidance for using core
tasks can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial and advanced training course standards, identifying the
tasks and knowledge requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3, 5, or 7-skill level in this career field.
Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Vol 1, Training
Development Delivery and Evaluation.

Course Training Standard (CTS). An Air Education Training Command (AETC) specialized publication that specifies
the level of performance and knowledge a student must possess upon graduation from a training course. It contains the
specific job elements and functional knowledge and specifies levels of proficiency required in each. It is the prime
qualitative course control document.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-job) to
qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill-level of a specialty.

Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other necessary means
to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a field training detachment (FTD)
or by a mobile training team.

Initial Skills Training. A formal resident course that results in award of the entry level.


                                                              2
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly, but flexible process for planning, developing,
implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are taught in a cost efficient way the knowledge,
skills, and attitudes essential for successful job performance.

Major Command Functional Manager (MFM). The individual charged with the responsibility for overseeing all
training and career field management aspects of an Air Force Specialty in a given Major Command.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey of tasks performed
within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both upgrade (skill
level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.

Optimal Training. The ideal combination of training settings results in the highest levels of proficiency on specified
performance requirements within the minimum time possible.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on, task performance training designed to qualify an individual in a specific
duty position. This portion of the dual channel on-the-job training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional package designed for use at the unit to qualify, or aid
qualification, in a duty position or program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be printed, computer-based, or in other
audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and equipment that preclude
desired training from being accomplished.

Specialized Courses (SC). Courses designed specifically for use by pararescuemen.

Specialty Training. A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade
officers and airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Specialty Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite of lesson plans, test
material, instructions, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct training. These packages are prepared by
AETC, approved by National Security Agency (NSA), and administered by qualified communications security
(COMSEC) maintenance personnel.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force Specialty in terms of tasks
and knowledge, which an individual in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know how to do, on the job. An
STS identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a
contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training requirements for an Air Force
specialty code (AFSC) are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.

Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by authority, custom, or
common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities, establishing practices or
procedures, or evaluating results. A fixed quantity or quality.

Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed within an Air Force specialty that are performed together and that
require common knowledge, skills, and abilities. An identification code and a statement identify TMs.

Total Force. All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the United States Air
Force.


                                                            3
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a UTW, however TPTs are more intimately
involved in training development and the range of issues are greater than is normal in the UTW forum.

Training Requirements Analysis. A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFS to be included in the training
decision process.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job, field training,
mobile training team, self-study etc.).

Upgrade Training (UGT). Mandatory training, which leads to attainment of higher level of proficiency.

Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to and the jobs performed by personnel
throughout their tenure within a career field or Air Force specialty. There are two types of patterns: 1) Current pattern,
which is based on the training provided to incumbents and the jobs to which they have been and are assigned; and 2)
Alternate pattern, which considers proposed changes in manpower, personnel, and training policies.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional
managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training
requirements.




                                                            4
Section A – General Information
1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force career field managers (AFCFM), MAJCOM
functional managers (MFM), commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and
conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the training individuals in this AFS
should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies initial skills, upgrade,
qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is the AFS-specific training an individual requires
for entry into the Air Force or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally this training is
conducted by AETC at one of the technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task
qualification requirements, and correspondence completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-skill levels.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty
position. This training occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the
performance skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected
airmen. Proficiency training is additional training (in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or OJT)
provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. This CFETP has
several purposes. Some are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training program. Supervisors use
it to identify training at the appropriate point in an individual’s career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and recommends education
and training throughout each phase of an individual's career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty and identifies sources of training and the training delivery method.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field training process.
2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels as a standardizing basis to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.
2.1. AETC training personnel will develop and revise formal resident, nonresident, field and exportable training based
upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the
AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.
2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial, upgrade, and proficiency
requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable courses may satisfy identified requirements.
MAJCOM-developed training supporting this AFSC must be identified for inclusion in this plan.
2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The lists of courses in Part
II will be used as a reference to support training.
2.4. QTPs, TCSs, and SOIs are developed and maintained by MFMs and/or units in coordination with AETC. Unit-
developed QTPs, TCSs, and SOIs will be provided to their MAJCOM for approval and, upon approval by the AFCFM,
included in the CFETP course index (Part II, Section D).
3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM representatives and AETC training
personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. The AETC training manager for this
specialty will complete an annual review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. Using the list of courses in
Part II will eliminate duplicate training. AFCFM will post interim message changes (IMC) for changes or updates to this
document. IMCs are good for 1 year. They are added in revision and posted in section D.




                                                              5
                             Figure 1: Pararescue Training Pipeline

                                    PJ PIPELINE FLOW


                                   PJ Indoctrination Course
                                          (9 weeks)
                                      Lackland AFB TX

                               Air Force Combat Dive Course -
                                         Open Circuit
                                       (3 weeks 2 days)

                         PCS Kirtland AFB NM for Home Basing




   USAF Combat Survival                                           US Army Airborne Course (3 weeks)
     S-V-80A (17 days)                                                      Ft Benning, GA
     Fairchild AFB WA                                                 ________________________
__________________________                                        US Navy Military Freefall Parachutist
                                       Out and Back                   Course (3 weeks) Jamul, CA
  USAF Underwater Egress
      Training (1 day)                                                            Or
          S-V-84A                                                       Military Freefall Course
     Fairchild AFB WA                                                     (4 weeks) Yuma AZ




                                    Pararescue EMT-Basic
                                       (4 weeks 2 days)
                                      Kirtland AFB NM


                                 Pararescue EMT- Paramedic
                                          (24 weeks)
                                      Kirtland AFB NM


                             USAF Pararescue Apprentice Course
                                     (22 weeks 3 days)
                                    Kirtland AFB NM




                                              6
Section B – Career Field Progression and Information
4. Specialty Descriptions.
4.1. Pararescue Superintendent/Enlisted Manager (9-level).
4.1.1. Specialty Summary. Conducts, supervises, manages, and evaluates pararescue activities in support of personnel
recovery (PR), special operations missions, training, standardization/evaluation, and mission-specific manpower and
logistics programs.
4.1.2. Duties and Responsibilities.
4.1.3. Conducts, supervises, manages, and evaluates PR and materiel recovery operations. Plans, organizes, directs, and
manages pararescue forces on flying status and as surface elements to provide a rapid response search, rescue, and
recovery capability for operations in the word-wide range of adverse geographic and environmental conditions, day or
night, on land or water, across the full spectrum of military operations. Assigns pararescue forces to operating areas and
directly supervises, manages, and evaluates mission planning and preparation, infiltration and exfiltration, insertion and
extraction, surface movement, objective area actions, debriefing and reporting, and special mission activities. Plans,
manages, and evaluates rescue and recovery of aerospace personnel and hardware in support of DoD and Department of
Homeland Security (DHS) operations. Rescue and recovery of personnel and hardware includes recovery of human
remains, aerospace hardware using surface, subsurface, and SCUBA techniques.
4.1.4. Conducts, supervises, manages, and evaluates operational plans, policy, and programs. Develop procedures to
support concepts of operations and mission employment tactics. Develops, reviews, updates, and manages unit type codes
and designated operational capabilities (DOC) statements, identifying pararescue forces. Performs deliberate and crisis
action planning for preparing and documenting operations plans (OPLANS), concept plans (CONPLANs), and operations
orders (OPORDs). Conduct inspection, review, and remedial action programs. Provide functional management for
pararescue AFSC. Conduct liaison across the total force (active duty and Air Reserve components).
4.1.5. Conduct, supervise, manage, and evaluate current operations and training. Conduct current operations including
contingency and exercise management. Supervises, manages, and evaluates pararescue mission planning and tasking
requirements. Coordinate follow-on and career advancement training to include formal training for rescue jumpmaster,
dive supervisor, and related courses to meet mission requirements. Coordinate aircraft scheduling, configuration, and use.
Manages work schedules and flying duty day requirements to ensure availability of personnel to support tasking.
Monitors support functions to ensure availability of equipment, accessibility to mission and intelligence data, and
transportation. Additionally conducts, supervises, and evaluates intelligence and operations debriefings and prepares
written reports. Prepares and evaluates operations readiness reports. Conducts, manages, and evaluates pararescue
pipeline training, formal schools programs, continuation training activities, and specialized training programs to meet
changing mission commitments. Evaluate unit air and ground training programs and mission performance to ensure
directive compliance and proper mission accomplishment. Serve on mishap review panels.
4.1.6. Conducts, supervises, manages, and evaluates mission-specific manpower and logistics programs. Identifies and
validates manpower, finances, material, and facilities requirements for pararescue forces. Researches, develops, monitors,
and evaluates test and evaluation of procedures, techniques, and equipment related to search, rescue, and recovery
operations. Develops, reviews, updates, and manages war readiness kits and materiel. Manages, monitors, and evaluates
materiel deficiency programs and reports.
4.2. Pararescue Craftsman (7-Level).
4.2.1. Specialty Summary. Must have completed all line items required for Recovery Team Leader (RTL) IAW para
4.2.3 and all other items deemed necessary by their specific command job qualification standard (JQS) and unit upgrade
training plan. Performs as a Recovery team leader; plans, leads, supervises, instructs, and evaluates pararescue activities.
Performs as the essential surface/air link in PR and materiel recovery operations by functioning on flying status as aircrew
and surface elements. Provides a rapid response capability and operates in a wide range of adverse geographic and
environmental conditions, day or night, on land or water, across the full spectrum of military operations. Provides both
short-and long-term survival and evasion assistance, both short- and long-term emergency/field trauma care/patrol
medicine, and security. Moves objectives (personnel and/or materiel) to safety or friendly control when direct recovery by
aircraft is not possible.
4.2.2. Element Leaders (EL). The EL must be chosen from the most qualified personnel on a pararescue (PJ) team and
be recommended by his supervisor. Designated ELs must hold a 5-skill level and complete the EL SOI (Section D).
Additional requirements will be completed IAW MAJCOM and unit-specific guidance. Element Leaders hold the Special
Experience Identifier (SEI) 340 – Element Leader.



                                                             7
4.2.3. Recovery Team Leaders (RTL). The RTL must be chosen from the most qualified personnel on a PJ team and be
recommended by his supervisor. Designated RTLs must have completed all 7-level core tasks and all line items in the
Recovery Team Leader Syllabus of Instruction. Additional requirements will be completed IAW MAJCOM and unit-
specific guidance. In addition to EL, the following qualifications are highly desired: swift water rescue and confined
space rescue. Recovery Team Leaders hold the Special Experience Identifier (SEI) 341 – Recovery Team Leader.
4.2.4. Perform, lead, supervise, instruct, and evaluate infiltration and exfiltration. Conduct flight following and confirm
waypoint passage; prepares and dons mission and personal equipment; performs chemical, biological, radiological,
nuclear, and high-yield explosive (CBRNE) warfare defense; provide survival, evasion, resistance, escape (SERE)
expertise; provides en route emergency/field trauma care and team/patrol medicine; and conduct/supervises offloads and
transfer of objectives to higher echelon/trauma care; perform in-flight duties as a non-rated aircrew member on flying
status, and may provide avoidance and suppression of air and surface threats through day/night scanning, navigation
assistance, and aerial gunnery operations.
4.2.5. Perform, lead, supervise, instruct, and evaluate insertion and extraction. Provide guidance for on-scene operations;
selects insertion point; performs chemical warfare defense; performs aerial insertion and extraction operations to include
static line and military freefall operations; provides recovery zone security and aircraft reception and performs or assists
on-load of objectives by rescue hoist; air, land, and surface methods.
4.2.6. Perform, lead, supervise, instruct, and evaluate surface movement. Conduct land/water navigation; perform overt,
low visibility, or clandestine movement in friendly, hostile, denied, or sensitive global land and water areas; conducts
CBRNE warfare defense; designate rallying points; selects bivouac sites; conducts discrete surface-to-air and surface
electronic and visual communications and signaling activities; employ firearms and munitions to provide movement
security and performs immediate action drills; direct and adjust ground and aerial fire support; provides reception for re-
supply operations; conduct surface, subsurface, SCUBA, adverse terrain and mountain rescue operations; provide survival
and evasion assistance; provide en route emergency and field medical care; and perform SERE.
4.2.7. Performs, leads, supervises, instructs, and evaluates objective area actions. Conducts surface, contact, and on-scene
authentication; directs area security; manages on-scene triage and survivor handling; conducts emergency survival
assistance and emergency/field trauma care and team/patrol medicine; guides recovery of priority aerospace materiel; and
provides photographic documentation.
4.2.8. Supports, performs, supervises, instructs, and evaluates debriefing and reporting. Provides intelligence and
operations information during debriefings and prepares written reports.
4.2.9. Conducts supervision and management. Supervises, manages, and ensures effective performance of pararescue
personnel and equipment assets; interprets and enforces policy and applicable directives in support of commanders; plans
and structures pararescue activities; manages on-the-job training, requalification, and continuation training; supervises and
manages operations and training missions; provides quality control to assure combat readiness; ensures safe and effective
operations IAW current directives; and supervises acquisition, maintenance, and repair of organizational equipment.
Initiate paperwork to obtain a TS clearance.
4.3. Pararescue Journeyman (5-level).
4.3.1. Specialty Summary. Performs as EL after appropriate upgrade IAW para 4.2.2. Plans, leads, supervises, instructs,
and evaluates pararescue activities. Perform as the essential surface/air link on PR and materiel recovery operations by
functioning on flying status as aircrew or surface elements. Provides a rapid response capability and operate in a wide
range of adverse geographic and environmental conditions, day or night, on land or water, across the full spectrum of
military operations.       Provide short and long term survival and evasion assistance, both short and long-term
emergency/field trauma care and team/patrol medicine, and security. Move objectives (personnel and/or materiel) to
safety or friendly control when direct recovery by aircraft is not possible.
4.3.2. Duties and Responsibilities.
4.3.3. Supports mission planning and preparation. Responds to warning orders or mission requirements; studies terrain
and situation; prepares uniforms, mission equipment, weapons, and munitions; rehearses mission plan; safeguards
information; and loads and configures aircraft.
4.3.4. Performs infiltration and exfiltration. Performs flight following and confirms waypoint passage; prepares and dons
mission and personal equipment; performs chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosive (CBRNE)
warfare defense; provides SERE expertise; provides enroute emergency/field trauma care, team/patrol medicine; and
performs offload and transfer of objectives to higher echelon medical care; performs non-rated aircrew duties on flying
status and; may provide avoidance and suppression of air and surface threats through day/night scanning, navigation
assistance, and aerial gunnery operations.


                                                             8
4.3.5. Performs insertion and extraction. Provides input for on-scene operations, confirms insertion points, performs
chemical warfare defense, performs aerial insertion and extraction operations to include static line and military freefall;
provides recovery zone security and aircraft reception, and performs or assists on-load of objectives using aerial and
surface methods.
4.3.6. Performs surface movement. Performs overt, low visibility, or clandestine movement in friendly, hostile, denied, or
sensitive global land and water areas; performs CBRNE warfare defense; performs land, water navigation; performs
formation security; uses rallying points; prepares bivouac sites; performs discrete surface-to-air and surface-to-surface
electronic and visual communications and signaling activities; employs firearms and munitions to perform immediate
action drills; requests ground and aerial fire support; provides reception for re-supply operations; performs surface,
subsurface, SCUBA, adverse terrain, and mountain rescue operations; provides survival and evasion assistance; provides
enroute emergency/field trauma care, team/patrol medicine; and performs SERE.
4.3.7. Performs objective area actions. Performs surface search, contact, and on-scene authentication; provides local
security; provides emergency survival assistance; provides on-scene triage and survivor handling; provides
emergency/field trauma care, team/patrol medicine; and recovers priority aerospace materiel.
4.3.8. Performs debriefing and reporting. Provides intelligence and operation information during debriefings.
4.4. Pararescue Apprentice (3-level).
4.4.1. Specialty Summary. Perform as the essential surface/air link on PR and materiel recovery operations by
functioning on flying status as aircrew or surface elements. Provides a rapid response capability and operates in a wide
range of adverse geographic and environmental conditions, day or night, on land or water, across the full spectrum of
military operations. Provide short and long term survival and evasion assistance, both short and long-term
emergency/field trauma care, team/patrol medicine, and security. Move objectives (personnel and/or materiel) to safety or
friendly control when direct recovery by aircraft is not possible.
4.4.2. Duties and Responsibilities.
4.4.3. Supports mission planning and preparation. Responds to warning orders or mission requirements; studies terrain
and situation; prepares uniforms, mission equipment, weapons, and munitions; rehearses mission plan; safeguards
information; and loads and configures aircraft.
4.4.4. Performs infiltration and exfiltration. Performs flight following and confirms waypoint passage; prepares and dons
mission and personal equipment; performs chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosive (CBRNE)
warfare defense; provides SERE expertise; provides enroute emergency/field trauma care, team/patrol medicine; and
performs offload and transfer of objectives to higher echelon/trauma care; performs non-rated aircrew duties on flying
status, and may provide avoidance and suppression of air and surface threats through day/night scanning, navigation
assistance, and aerial gunnery operations.
4.4.5. Performs insertion and extraction. Provides input for on-scene operations, confirms insertion points, performs
chemical warfare defense, performs aerial insertion and extraction operations to include static line and military freefall,
provides recovery zone security and aircraft reception, and performs or assists on-load of objectives using aerial and
surface methods.
4.4.6. Performs surface movement. Performs overt, low visibility, or clandestine movement in friendly, hostile, denied, or
sensitive global land and water areas; performs CBRNE warfare defense; performs land/water navigation; performs
formation security; uses rallying points; prepares bivouac sites; performs discrete surface-to-air and surface-to-surface
electronic and visual communications and signaling activities; employs firearms and munitions to perform immediate
action drills; requests ground and aerial fire support; provides reception for re-supply operations; performs surface,
subsurface, SCUBA, adverse terrain, and mountain rescue operations; provides survival and evasion assistance; provides
enroute emergency/field trauma care, team/patrol medicine; and performs SERE.
4.4.7. Performs objective area actions. Performs surface search, contact, and on-scene authentication; provides local
security; provides emergency survival assistance; provides on-scene triage and survivor handling; provides
emergency/field trauma care, team/patrol medicine; and recovers priority aerospace materiel.
4.4.8. Performs debriefing and reporting. Provides intelligence and operation information during debriefings.
5. Skill and Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the superintendent
level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its mission. Everyone involved in training must do
his or her part to plan, manage, and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the
CFETP will ensure each Airman receives viable training at the appropriate points in their career.
5.1. Apprentice 3-Skill Level. Initial skills training in this specialty consists of the tasks and knowledge training
provided in the Pararescue Apprentice Course. Task and knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS (Part


                                                            9
II, Section A). Individuals must complete the Pararescue Apprentice Course and all prerequisite courses to be awarded
AFSC 1T231.
5.2. Journeyman 5-Skill Level. Upgrade training to the 5-skill level is initiated immediately after arriving to first duty
station. Training will consist of a minimum 15 months/9 months for retrainees. In this specialty, upgrade training
consists of completing 5-skill level CDCs, if available, 5-skill level core tasks, duty position requirements per the STS,
and any other MAJCOM or unit directed OJT requirements.
5.3. Craftsman 7-Skill Level. Upgrade training to the 7-skill level is initiated on 1 Sep of the year the trainee is selected
for promotion to Staff sergeant. Training will consist of a minimum of 12 months/6 months for retrainees. In this
specialty, upgrade training consists of completing all 7-skill level core tasks, duty position requirements per the STS, and
any other MAJCOM- or unit-directed training requirements.
5.4. Superintendent 9-Skill Level. Must be a Pararescue Craftsman. In this specialty, upgrade training consists of
completing all 7-skill level core tasks, duty position requirements per the STS, and any other MAJCOM- or unit-directed
training requirements.
6. Training Criteria. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to encompass the entire spectrum
of training requirements for the pararescue career field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to
meet training requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate
a disjointed approach to training. The following training objectives were decided upon during the 1T2XX U&TW and
HQ USAF/A3/5 directed conferences:
6.1. Pararescue Pipeline Course of Initial Entry (COIE). All retrainees, prior service, Guard and Reserve, and Non Prior
Service Airmen (BMT graduates) will enter and must graduate the Pararescue Indoctrination Course before they can enter
the follow-on Pararescue training pipeline.
6.1.1. The Pararescue Indoctrination Course is designed to fulfill three purposes: (1) function as an indoctrination to the
rigors of the pararescue pipeline and career field by training Airmen in the fundamentals of physical fitness (run, swim,
calisthenics, weight training, and underwater confidence; (2) emphasize teamwork and the Pararescue core values built
upon the Air Force core values of integrity, service, and excellence in all we do.; and (3) prepare an individual for pipeline
and career field success. By building the core values of integrity, we instill in Airmen the moral traits of accepting
responsibility, having courage to do what’s right, having a sense of justice (being fair), having self-respect, and
understanding the importance of meeting standards. The core values of service before self is reflected in the
Pararescueman's Code: “It is my duty, as a pararescueman to save life and aid the injured. I will be prepared at all times
to perform my assigned duties quickly and efficiently, placing these duties before personal desires and comforts. These
things I do that others may live." We instill “Excellence in all we do” in Airmen so they will develop a passion for
continuous improvement in their careers.
6.1.2. Upon completion of Pararescue Indoctrination Course, individuals will complete the following pararescue pipeline
pre-requisite qualification training:
     (1) Air Force Combat Dive Course - Open Circuit
     (2) US Army Airborne
     (3) Combat Survival Training Course (S-V80-A)
     (4) Underwater Egress (S-V84-A)
     (5) US Navy Freefall Course or US Army Military Freefall Parachutist
     (6) Pararescue Emergency Medical Technician – Basic
     (7) Pararescue Emergency Medical Technician - Paramedic
These courses are mandatory pre-requisites for entry into the AFSC awarding Pararescue Apprentice Course The
Pararescue Apprentice Course content is recorded in Part II of this CFETP. Personnel must complete the pipeline pre-
requisite qualification training to be awarded AFSC 1T231.
NOTE: Pararescue Airmen will attend the Air Force Closed Circuit Dive Transition Course upon receiving orders to Air
Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) or AFSOC gained ARC units.
6.1.3. Retrainees and Prior Service Personnel. Trainees will complete the Pararescue pipeline pre-requisite
qualification not already accomplished.
6.2. 5-Level Upgrade Requirements. Member enters journeyman training immediately after arriving at first duty
station. Training will consist of a minimum of 15 months/9 months for retrainees (OJT). Refer to AFI 36-2201, Vol 3,
Air Force Training: On-the-Job Training Administration for minimum time in training waiver process.
6.3. 7-Level Upgrade Requirements. Training will consist of a minimum of 12 months/6 months for retrainees (OJT).
No formal course required. Refer to AFI 36-2201, Vol 3, for minimum time in training waiver process.


                                                             10
6.4. Mission Readiness and Continuation Training. Training conducted IAW AFI 16-1202 Vol 1, Pararescue and
Combat Rescue Officer Training
6.5. Requalification Training. Prior service pararescue personnel returning to the career field and who have not
practiced pararescue skills for five years or more must meet the following re-qualification requirements:
6.5.1. Pass Pararescue physical fitness evaluation IAW AFI 16-1202 Vol 2 Pararescue and Combat Rescue Officer
Evaluations.
6.5.2. Pass a Class III flight physical.
6.5.3. Complete altitude chamber training.
6.5.4. Qualify for appropriate security clearance.
6.5.5. Complete requalification requirements for military freefall IAW AFI 11-410, Personnel Parachute Program and
AFMAN 11-411, Special Forces Military Freefall Operations (restricted).
6.5.6. Complete requalification requirements for Open Circuit and/or Closed Circuit Dive IAW US Navy standards A/R.
6.5.7. Complete re-qualification requirements for EMT-P IAW NREMT.
6.5.8. Complete the Pararescue Apprentice Course (non-waiverable).
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military
training. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Associate in Applied Sciences Degree. In addition to its associate’s
degree program, CCAF offers the following:
7.1. Occupational Instructor Certification. Upon completion of instructor qualification training, consisting of an
instructor methods course and supervised practice teaching, CCAF instructors who possess an associates degree or higher
may be nominated by their school commander and commandant for certification as an occupational instructor.
7.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill certification is awarded for the
primary occupational specialty. The college uses a competency based assessment process for trade skill certification at
one of four proficiency levels: apprentice, journeyman, craftsman/supervisor, or master craftsman/manager. All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.
7.3. Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior to completing an
associate’s degree, the 5-skill level must be awarded and the following requirements must be met:



                                  Pararescue (7GDP) CCAF Degree
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: 1T2XX

DEGREE REQUIREMENTS: The journeyman (5-skill level) must be held at the time of program completion.
                                                                                      Semester Hours
Technical Education………………………………………………………………………………..                                       24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies…………………………………………..……….                          6
Physical Education………………………………………………………………………..………..                                        4
General Education……………………………………………………………………………........                                    15
Program Elective…………………………………………………………………………………...                                        15
Total                                                                                     64

TECHNICAL EDUCATION. (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of technical
core subjects or courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied from technical core,
technical elective subjects or courses. Requests to substitute comparable courses or to exceed specified
semester hour values in any subject or course must be approved in advance by the Services Branch. Refer
to page 1-10 for Application of Courses to Technical Education Requirement.



Technical Core
Subjects and Courses                                    Semester Hours
Air Operations………………………………………………………………………………………..           9
CCAF Internship…………………………………………………………….………………….........    16

                                                          11
Emergency Medicine…………………………………………………………..…………………….                                                       12
Evasion and Recovery………………………………………………………………………………..                                                       3
General Principles of Survival……………………………………………………..…………………                                               12
Ground Operations……………………………………………………………………………………                                                         12
Mountain Travel and Rescue Techniques……………………………………………………..……..                                            3
Pararescue Indoctrination……………………………………………………………………..………                                                   3
Psychology of Environmental Stress…………………………………………………………..……..                                             3

Technical Electives
Subjects and Courses                                              Maximum Semester Hours
Computer Science…………………………………………………………………………………….                          6
Enlisted Professional Military Education…………………………………………..…………........... 12
Human Anatomy and Physiology…………………………………………………………………….                    3
Parachuting and SCUBA Diving……………………………………………………………………..                   6
Physical Geography……..……………………………………………………………………………                        3
Weapons Familiarization……………………………………………………………………………..                     3

LEADERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, AND MILITARY STUDIES (LMMS) (6 Semester Hours):
Professional military education or civilian management courses. See pages 1-13 for Application of
Courses to Leadership, Management, and Military Studies.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION. (4 Semester Hours):
PHE 1000…………………………………………………………………………………………….                                                              4

GENERAL EDUCATION. (15 Semester Hours):
Applicable courses must meet the Criteria for Application of Courses to General Education Requirement
(GER) and be in agreement with the definitions of applicable general education subjects and courses
provided on page 1-12.

Subjects and Courses                                                                                     Semester Hours
Oral Communication…………………………………………………………………………………                                                           3
        Speech
Written Communication…………………………………………………………………………......                                                     3
        English Composition
Mathematics………………………………………………………………………………………….                                                              3
        Intermediate algebra or a college-level mathematics course is required. If an acceptable
        mathematics course is applied as a technical or program elective, a natural science course meeting
        GER application criteria may be applied as a general education requirement.
Social Science…………………………………………………………………………………..........                                                     3
        Anthropology, archaeology, economics, geography, government, history, political science,
        psychology, sociology
Humanities……………………………………………………………………………………………                                                               3
        Fine arts (criticism, appreciation, historical significance), foreign language, literature, philosophy,
        religion

PROGRAM ELECTIVE. (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied with applicable technical education, LMMS,
or general education subjects and courses, including natural science courses meeting GER application
criteria and foreign language credit earned at the Defense Language Institute or through the Defense
Language Proficiency Test. Six semester hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical credit otherwise not
applicable to this program may be applied.

8. Career Field Path
8.1. Manpower Table.


                                                             12
   CMSGT                SMSGT            MSGT            TSGT          SSGT          SRA             A1C           TOTAL
     8                    16              59              68            137           87              49            424

8.2. Enlisted Career Path.
      Table 8-2: Enlisted Career Path
                                                                       GRADE REQUIREMENTS
      Education and Training                              Rank         Average      Earliest     High Year Of Tenure
                                                                       Sew-On       Sew-On             (HYT)
      Requirements
      Basic Military Training School
      Apprentice Technical School                         Amn         6 months
      (3-skill level)

      Upgrade to Journeyman                               A1C         16 months
      (5-skill level)                                     SrA          3 years     28 months          12 years
      - Minimum 15 months/9 months for retrainees.
      - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
      Airman Leadership School (ALS)
      - Must be a SrA with 48 months time in service
      or be a SSgt Select.
      - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
      sew-on (Active Duty Only).
      Upgrade to Craftsman                                SSgt        7.5 years     3 years           20 years
      (7-skill level)
      - Minimum rank of SSgt.
      - Minimum 12 months/6 months for retrainees.
      - Complete appropriate CDC if/when available.
      - Advanced Technical School.
      Noncommissioned Officer Academy                     TSgt        12.5 years    5 years           24 years
      (NCOA)
      - Must be a TSgt or TSgt Select.
      - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for MSgt
      sew-on (Active Duty Only).                          MSgt         16 years    8 years            26 years
      USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)                    SMSgt        19.2 years   11 years           28 years
      - Must be a MSgt or SMSgt Select.
      - Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
      CMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
      Upgrade to Superintendent                          CMSgt        21.5 years   14 years           30 years
      (9-skill level)
      - Minimum rank of SMSgt




Section C – Skill Level Training Requirements
9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each skill level in broad, general terms
and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award, and retention of each skill level. The specific task and
knowledge training requirements are identified in the STS at Part II, Section A of this CFETP. Unit work centers must
develop a structured training program utilizing the Air Staff approved Pararescue Tasks, Conditions, and Standards
(TCSs) document.
10. Specialty Qualification:
10.1. Apprentice Level Training:
10.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory: mission planning and preparation; aircraft and load
characteristics; infiltration and exfiltration; insertion and extraction; surface movement; objective area actions; debriefing
and reporting; Recovery team leader actions; emergency trauma and field medical care; basic and advance parachuting;
adverse terrain and mountain operations; surface, subsurface, SCUBA and water operations; CBRNE warfare defense;
SERE; night vision devices; firearms and munitions; communications and signaling; photographic documentation; legal



                                                                 13
responsibilities and ethics; vehicle operations; security; occupational safety and health, administration, and publications;
individual fitness; and equipment qualification, inspection, maintenance, and accountability.
10.1.2. Education. Completion of high school and a certified emergency medical technician or paramedic course is
desirable for entry into this specialty.
10.1.3. Training. Completion of the following courses are mandatory for award of AFSC 1T231:
     (1) Pararescue Indoctrination Course
     (2) US Army Static Line/Airborne
     (3) Air Force Open Circuit Dive Course
     (4) Combat Survival Training
     (5) Underwater Egress Training
     (6) US Navy Freefall/Military Freefall Parachutist
     (7) Emergency Medical Technician-Basic Course
     (8) Emergency Medical Technician-Paramedic Course
     (9) Pararescue Apprentice Course
10.1.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated. Practical experience
commensurate with education areas listed in the previous paragraph is highly desirable.
10.1.5. Other. The following requirements are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of these AFSC 1T231:
10.1.5.1. Physical qualification for aircrew, parachute, and marine diving duty IAW AFI 48-123, Medical Examination
and Standards.
10.1.5.2. Successful completion of the Physical Ability and Stamina Test (PAST).
10.1.5.3. For award and retention of AFSC 1T231:
10.1.5.3.1. Qualification, currency, and proficiency as a static line and military freefall parachutist, and as a military
SCUBA diver. NOTE: Prior service and retrainee personnel with 3-skill levels and previously qualified as jumpmaster
and dive supervisor will maintain qualification, currency, and proficiency as required.
10.1.5.3.2. Paramedic level certification from the National Registry for Emergency Medical Technicians. After initial
certification, continued certification is mandatory.
10.1.5.3.3. SECRET security clearance or NACLC authorized interim SECRET clearance IAW to AFI 31-501, Personnel
Security Program Management.
10.1.5.3.4. Physical qualification and maintenance of physical training standards IAW 16-1202 Vol 2.
10.1.6. Training Sources and Resources. The established courses listed in paragraph 10.1.3. are the training sources
available and required for pararescue personnel. Successful completion of these courses satisfies all knowledge and
training requirements for award of the pararescue 3-skill level.
10.1.7. Implementation. Individuals are awarded their 3-skill level upon successful completion of all pipeline training
courses and graduation from Pararescue Apprentice Course.
10.2. Journeyman Level Training:
10.2.1. Knowledge. Knowledge of the following is mandatory: mission planning and preparation; aircraft and load
characteristics; infiltration and exfiltration; insertion and extraction; surface movement; objective area actions; debriefing
and reporting; Recovery team leader actions; emergency trauma and field medical care; basic and advance parachuting;
adverse terrain and mountain operations; surface, subsurface, SCUBA and water operations; CBRNE warfare defense;
SERE; night vision devices; firearms and munitions; communications and signaling; photographic documentation; legal
responsibilities and ethics; vehicle operations; security; occupational safety and health, administration, and publications;
individual fitness; and equipment qualification, inspection, maintenance, and accountability.
10.2.2. Education. No change from 1T231.
10.2.3. Training. Completion of 5-skill level OJT criteria. Minimum 15 months/9 months for retrainees.
10.2.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:
10.2.4.1. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1T231 with experience performing pararescue duties.
10.2.5. Other. The following requirements are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of AFSC 1T251:
10.2.5.1. Qualification, currency, and proficiency as an Element Leader (SEI 340).
10.2.5.2. Physical qualification for aircrew, parachute, and marine diving duty IAW AFI 48-123.
10.2.5.3. For award and retention of AFSC 1T251:
10.2.5.2.1. Qualification, currency, and proficiency as a static line and military freefall parachutist, and as a military
SCUBA diver.



                                                             14
10.2.5.2.2. Paramedic level certification from the National Registry for Emergency Medical Technicians. After initial
certification, continued certification is mandatory.
10.2.5.2.3. SECRET security clearance IAW AFI 31-501.
10.2.5.2.4. Physical qualification and maintenance of physical training standards IAW 16-1202 Vol 2.
10.2.6. Training Sources and Resources. Qualification training packages (QTPs) are a valuable career field training
resource. As Air Force publications, they are mandatory for use during upgrade and qualification training, as they become
available. AETC and MAJCOMs develop QTPs to enhance and assist the unit OJT process. They are obtained through
normal publication channels in accordance with AFIND-8. Procedures for requesting QTP development are also
contained in AFIND-8. Training courses and QTPs that support Pararescue education and training are listed in Part II,
Section D of this CFETP.
10.2.7. Implementation. Pararescue personnel enter 5-skill level upgrade training immediately. Qualification training is
initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties they are not qualified to perform. 5-skill level CDCs, if used, support 5-
skill level OJT and upgrade training. Their use is mandatory, as they become available. The 5-skill level is awarded upon
completion of CDCs (if used), core tasks directed by AFCFM, MAJCOM, and unit duty position tasks.
10.3. Craftsman Level Training:
10.3.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: mission planning and preparation; aircraft and load characteristics;
infiltration and exfiltration; insertion and extraction; surface movement; objective area actions; debriefing and reporting;
Recovery team leader actions; emergency trauma and field medical care; basic and advance parachuting; adverse terrain
and mountain operations; surface, subsurface, SCUBA and water operations; CBRNE warfare defense; SERE; night
vision devices; firearms and munitions; communications and signaling; photographic documentation; legal responsibilities
and ethics; vehicle operations; security; occupational safety and health, administration, and publications; individual
fitness; and equipment qualification, inspection, maintenance, and accountability.
10.3.2. Education. No change from 1T251.
10.3.3. Training. Completion of OJT is mandatory. Completions of supplemental and other schools listed in this
CFETP are desirable.
10.3.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:
10.3.4.1. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1T251 experience with performing or supervising pararescue duties.
10.3.5. Other. The following requirements are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of AFSC 1T271:
10.3.5.1. Physical qualification for aircrew, parachute, and marine diving duty IAW AFI 48-123.
10.3.5.2. For award and retention of AFSC 1T271:
10.3.5.2.1. Qualification, currency, and proficiency as a Recovery Team Leader (SEI 341).
10.3.5.2.2. Paramedic level certification from the National Registry for Emergency Medical Technicians. After initial
certification, continued certification is mandatory.
10.3.5.2.3. SECRET security clearance and eligibility for TOP SECRET security clearance IAW AFI 31-501.
10.3.5.2.4. Physical qualification and maintenance of physical training standards IAW 16-1202 Vol 2.
10.3.6. Training Sources and Resources. QTPs and TCSs are a valuable career field training resource. As Air Force
publications, they are mandatory for use during upgrade and qualification training, as they become available. AETC and
MAJCOMs develop QTPs to enhance and assist the unit OJT process. They are obtained through normal publication
channels in accordance with AFIND-8. Procedures for requesting QTP development are also contained in AFIND-8.
Training courses and QTPs that support Pararescue education and training are listed in Part II, Section D of this CFETP.
10.3.7. Implementation. Initiate entry into 7-skill level up-grade training when an individual possesses the 5-skill level
and has a line number for promotion to staff sergeant. Completion of a minimum of 12 months/6 months for retrainees
OJT to include core tasks directed by the AFCFM, MAJCOM, and unit; and any other MAJCOM- or unit-specific training
fulfills the training requirements for upgrade. Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties
they are not qualified to perform.
10.4. Superintendent Level Training:
10.4.1 Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: mission planning and preparation; aircraft and load characteristics;
infiltration and exfiltration; insertion and extraction; surface movement; objective area actions; debriefing and reporting;
Recovery team leader actions; emergency trauma and field medical care; basic and advance parachuting; adverse terrain
and mountain operations; surface, subsurface, SCUBA and water operations; CBRNE warfare defense; SERE; night
vision devices; firearms and munitions; communications and signaling; photographic documentation; legal responsibilities
and ethics; vehicle operations; security; occupational safety and health, administration, and publications; individual
fitness; and equipment qualification, inspection, maintenance, and accountability.


                                                            15
10.4.2. Education. No change from 1T271
10.4.3. Training. Completion of supplemental and other schools listed in this CFETP is desirable
10.4.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of AFSC 1T291:
10.4.4.1. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1T271 with experience performing or managing pararescue functions
as a pararescue Recovery team leader.
10.4.5. Other. The following requirements are mandatory for entry, award, and retention of AFSC 1T291:
10.4.5.1. Physical qualification for non-rated aircrew, parachute, and marine diving duty IAW AFI 48-123, Medical
Examination and Standards.
10.4.5.2. For award and retention of AFSC 1T291:
10.4.5.2.1. Qualification, currency, and proficiency as a static line and military freefall parachutist, and as a military
SCUBA diver.
10.4.5.2.2. Paramedic level certification from the National Registry for Emergency Medical Technicians. After initial
certification, continued certification is mandatory. Chief Master Sergeants are not required to maintain NREMT
certification.
10.4.5.2.3. SECRET security clearance and eligibility for TOP SECRET security clearance IAW AFI 31-501t.
10.4.5.2.4. Physical qualification and maintenance of physical training standards IAW 16-1202 Vol 2.
10.4.6. Training Sources and Resources. Training courses, TCSs, and QTPs that support pararescue education and
training are listed in Part II, Section D of this CFETP. Additionally, when selected for the grade of senior master
sergeant, pararescue personnel are eligible to attend the SNCOA. Completion of the SNCOA is mandatory before sew-on
of chief master sergeant.
10.4.7. Implementation. Superintendent 9-Skill Level. Must be a pararescue Craftsman. In this specialty, upgrade training
consists of completing all 7-skill level core tasks, duty position requirements per the STS, and any other MAJCOM or unit
directed training requirements.
Section D – Resource Constraints
11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints, which preclude optimal/desired training from being
developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource
constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in
this section are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource constraints will
be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.
12. Apprentice Level Training:
12.1. Constraint. The Pararescue Apprentice Course can train 120 students (PJ and Combat Rescue Officer) in one fiscal
year 163 is the requirement. Civilian instructors, vehicles, supplies and equipment, TDY-to-School costs for 43 additional
students training as well as funding for paramedic and freefall training contracts impact ability to train to requirements.
13. 5-Skill Level Training:
13.1. Constraint. N/A.

Section E – Transitional Training Guide: There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is
reserved.

PART II
Section A – Specialty Training Standard (STS)
1. Implementation. Implement this STS for technical classes beginning with CSD: 080107 – CGD: 080616
2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, Vol 3, this STS:
2.1. Column 1 lists the most common tasks, knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform
duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level. Tasks statements are numbered sequentially (i.e., 1.1, 1.2, 2.1). Column 2 (core
tasks) identifies specialty-wide training requirements by appropriate skill level (i.e., 5, 7).
2.2. Columns are provides for OJT certification. Use to record completion of tasks and knowledge training requirements.
Use automated training management systems to document technician qualifications, if available. Task certification must
show a certification and completed date (as a minimum, use the following column designators: training complete, certifier
initials).
2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Show the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job
by the graduate as a result of training on the task and knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the



                                                           16
correspondence course. See CADRE/AFSC listing maintained by the unit education and training manager for current
reference listings.
2.4. Contains the behavioral statement key used to indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident
training and career development courses.
2.5. Becomes a JQS for OJT when placed in AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder, and used IAW AFI 36-
2201, Vol 3. When used as a JQS, the following requirements apply:
3. Documentation. Document and certify completion of training. Identify duty position requirements by circling the
subparagraph number next to the task statement. As a minimum, complete the following columns in Part 2 of the CFETP:
training start date, training completed, trainee initials, trainer initials, and certifier initials (as applicable). An AFJQS may
be used in lieu of Part II of the CFETP only upon approval of the AFCFM. NOTE: The AFCFM may supplement these
minimum documentation procedures as needed or deemed necessary for the career field.
3.1. Personnel Authorized to Document Pararescue CFETP Training/Certification/Evaluation IAW 16-1202 Vol
1/2.
3.1.1. Trainers. Trainers are individuals certified to conduct and document pararescue CFETP-mandated task training in
only non-flight related CFETP tasks that they are trained and certified to perform. As a minimum, they must meet all
requirements for trainers listed in AFI 36-2201, Vol 3 and complete a MAJCOM approved trainer upgrade. Commanders
may apply further restrictions in writing.
3.1.2. Instructors. Instructors are qualified to conduct both flight- and surface-related pararescue CFETP task training
and certification for any task that they are trained and certified to perform. As a minimum, they must meet all
requirements for certifiers listed in AFI 36-2201, Vol 3, complete a MAJCOM-approved instructor upgrade, and certified
by their squadron commander.
3.1.3. Evaluators. Evaluators are qualified instructors that conduct all pararescue evaluations requiring an AF FORM
803, Report of Task Evaluations, AF FORM 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, AF FORM 8a, and Certificate of
Aircrew Qualification (Multiple-Aircraft). As a minimum, they must meet all requirements for certifiers listed in AFI
36-2201, Vol 3, and certified by their squadron commander.
3.2. When converting from an old document to the new CFETP reference, AFI 36-2201, Vol 3, Paragraph 7.8.2.
3.3. Documenting Career Knowledge. The supervisor identifies STS training references that the trainee requires for
career knowledge and ensures, as a minimum, that trainees cover the mandatory items in AFI 36-2101, Classifying
Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted).
3.4. Records Documentation: An AF Form 623 will be maintained for all pararescue personnel in the grades of E-1 thru
E-9. Use of a 3-ring binder is an optional, approved method of managing the AF Fm 623 contents. The 3-ring binders
provide a more durable hard cover, allows ease of reading, and also enables the user to easily make changes and additions.
If this method is utilized, cut the cover off the AF Fm 623 and slide it into the outside clear pocket of the binder.
Documentation is an important part of the training and evaluation process. Concise and factual documentation provides a
history of tasks accomplished and the conditions under which they were accomplished. Proper documentation supports
the trend analysis program, an important part of the command and unit cross-tell programs. Improper documentation
results in a poor or incomplete picture of the individual’s performance and may hinder the supervisor as he retrains and
prepares the individual for his re-qualification evaluation. Divide the AF Form 623 into eight sections using tabs.
3.4.1. Tab 1 – CFETP. Documenting the STS and JQS. Pararescue is unique in that OJT training is both mission and
task compliance oriented. Each mission area has been subdivided into specific tasks and is based on go/no-go. All
trainee’s, supervisor’s, trainer’s, and certifying officials will be documented on the JQS identification page. If additional
space is needed, use locally produced forms containing the required information. Place additional identification pages in
front of the CFETP if required.
3.4.2. Tab 2 – AF Form 623a, On-The-Job Training (OJT) Continuation Sheet. The 623a is used for
recommendations and explanation of restrictions. Use the 623a to record positive performance as well as negative. The
evaluator and trainee initials must be recorded after the comment section in order for the comments to be considered valid.
As a minimum, each entry on a continuation sheet must include the date, comments, and initials of both the trainer and
certifier and trainee. Training entries will also include strengths, weaknesses, and recommended actions. All 623a entries
should provide supporting documentation to any subsequent evaluations annotated on the AF Form 803.
3.4.3. Tab 3 – Mission Ready Training Forms. When available, ARMS will be used to track training. Retain all
management products in this tab or a central location. The product must be returned to this tab if the individual deploys
with the training record or makes a permanent change of station (PCS) move.



                                                              17
3.4.3.1. Maintain a record of required Air Force ancillary training (AFI 36-2201, Vol 3) either in this tab or in a central
location if not recorded in unit training management products.
3.4.3.2. Air Force Form 1098, Special Task Certification Recurring Training. This form is used to record recurring
training if not recorded in unit training management products.
3.4.4. Tab 4 – Individual Dive Record. Diver Reporting System (DRS) software may be used to generate dive reports.
http://www.safetycenter.navy.mil/afloat/diving/drs/. If software is not available use DD Form 2544, Diving Log, to record
and maintain a historical record of individual dive training.
3.4.5. Tab 5 – Evaluation Records. Tab 5 requirements and maintenance are IAW AFI 16-1202 Vol 2. Supporting
documentation for any training required prior to an evaluation should be supported by 623a entries.
3.4.6. Tab 6 – AF Form 522, USAF Ground Weapons Training Data. The forms may be maintained in this tab or a
central location, but must be returned to this tab if the individual deploys with the training record or makes a PCS move.
3.4.7. Tab 7 – Basic Qualifications and Advanced Skills Documentation. Maintain a copy of current special orders
and/or commander’s certification letters placing individual on or removing from specialty qualifications. Advanced
qualifications denoted by a commander’s letter must have supporting documentation entered in the 623a and/or AF Form
803
3.4.8. Tab 8 – EMT Certification and Re-Certification Documentation. This tab will include either originals or copies
of individual’s current qualification documentation. This tab is also used to maintain the necessary information and
documentation required to attain and maintain EMT qualification.
3.5. Certification and Decertification Procedures.
3.5.1. All annotation will be accomplished in pencil.
3.5.2. Pre-printed items listed in the formal training columns relate to mandatory training required for certification. Upon
formal school completion an individual is considered qualified in those tasks.
3.5.3. Identify duty position, MAJCOM and unit mission-essential tasks. Circle the corresponding task number/letter.
Circling line items in the STS makes it a JQS. JQS items should align with MAJCOM and unit METL (Mission Essential
Task List) requirements and individual responsibilities.
3.5.4. Identify duty position requirements to include core tasks by circling the applicable subparagraph number next to the
task statement.

    NOTE: During upgrade, core tasks are circled regardless of unit METL requirements and are trained IAW
    normal upgrade requirements. Pararescuemen must maintain qualification in all core tasks in order to
    maintain AFSC.

3.5.5. To begin training in a specific task, enter a training start date.
3.5.6. To complete the training process, the trainee and trainer agree to task proficiency and the trainee initials the trainee
column. The trainer will enter the completion date and his initials in the trainer column. For tasks requiring task
certification, when a task is certified complete, the trainer/certifier enters the completion date in the completion date
column and then initials the certifier column.
3.5.7. A review board will be conducted for pararescuemen de-certified in AFI 16-1202 Vol 2. The board will
recommend to the commander whether a waiver, remedial training, or removal from the career field is warranted. De-
certified individuals will not perform operational duties until a re-qualification evaluation or waiver is completed.
3.5.8. When decertifying an individual to a lower level, line through the specific upgrade columns that the de-certification
relates to, erase the training start/stop dates, erase the trainer/certifier initials and write in the new start date for the level
being trained to. De-certification requires an entry be made in the AF 623a or the AF Form 803 as appropriate. When
documenting the AF 623a/Form 803, indicate the date, reason for de-certification, corrective actions, and any restrictions.
Clearly define type of restriction, reason the restriction was imposed, and training required to clear the restriction.
3.6. Training Standard: Tasks are trained and qualified to the go/no-go level. Go means the individual can perform the
task without assistance and meet local demands for accuracy, timeliness, and correct use of procedures. TCSs are written
to, or exceed, 3c proficiency level s, IAW AFI 36-2201, Vol 3.
3.7. Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT). Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields develop
the SKT at the USAF Occupational Measurement Squadron. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas
judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon
study references listed in the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in chapter 14 of AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in
the United States Air Force. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard.


                                                               18
3.8. Upgrade Certification Procedures. Prior to upgrade, all 1T2XX personnel, regardless of duty position, must
satisfactorily complete career knowledge training commensurate with upgrade skill level. Trainees must also meet AFSC
experience requirements outlined in AFI 36-2101, and task certification on 5-skill level or 7-skill level core tasks. Work
center supervisors may not defer selected core tasks without MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM) approval and
AFCFM waiver to training policy. All requests to waive core tasks identified in the CFETP must be routed through
applicable base training manager to the MAJCOM Functional Manager for coordination and forwarded to the AFCFM for
approval. Deferment actions will be coordinated with the unit training office, MFM, and AFCFM. Work centers may add
local upgrade core tasks and non-mandatory tasks. Continue to accomplish completion of non-mandatory tasks, pertinent
to the unit, as tasks become available for training.
3.9. Recommendations. Each newly assigned 3-level must be evaluated on the technical school training received and
any unsatisfactory performance reported to 37 TRG/DOS, 1220 Truemper Drive, Lackland AFB, TX 78236-5717.
Reference specific STS paragraphs. A customer service information line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisor's
convenience to identify graduates who may have received over or under training on tasks and knowledge items listed in
this STS. For a quick response to problems, call the CSIL, Defense Switched Network (DSN) 473-2917, anytime, day or
night. In addition, any questions related to pararescue pipeline curriculum or courses please forward to Training Manager,
342 TRS/DORM, 950 Voyager Drive, LAFB Annex, TX 78236-5724, or call DSN 473-2959/2930.


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE


OFFICIAL                                        DANIEL J. DARNELL, LT GEN USAF
                                                DCS, Air, Space and Information Operations, Plans
                                                 and Requirements




                                                           19
                                              This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name of Trainee:
Printed Name: (Last, First, Middle Initial)                              Initials: (Signed))    SSN:




                      Printed Name (N) of Trainer/Certifying Official and Signed Initials (I)

N/I                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                   N/I

N/I                                                                   N/I



                        SPECIALTY INDEX                                                         PAGE
1. PHYSICAL FITNESS TRAINING                                                                     22
2. PARARESCUE OPERATIONS                                                                         22
3. AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS                                                                           25
4. MARITIME AND AMPHIBIOUS OPERATIONS                                                            28
5. TACTICAL OPERATIONS                                                                           31
6. TECHNICAL RESCUE AND RECOVERY OPERATIONS                                                      34
7. EMERGENCY MEDICAL OPERATIONS                                                                  36
8. SUPERVISON AND MANAGEMENT                                                                     39
9. TRAINING                                                                                      40




                                                                     20
                                             Proficiency Code Key
                      Scale Value       Definition: The individual
                                        Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task.
                            1           (Extremely Limited)
      Task                              Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.
                            2           (Partially Proficient)
  Performance                           Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.
     Levels                 3           (Competent)
                                        Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the
                            4           task. (Highly Proficient)
                                        Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task.
                            a           (Nomenclature)
     *Task                              Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.
                            b           (Procedures)
   Knowledge                            Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
     Levels                 c           (Operating Principles)
                                        Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.
                            d           (Advanced Theory)
                                        Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.
                            A           (Facts)
    **Subject                           Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
                            B           (Principles)
   Knowledge                            Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.
      Levels                C           (Analysis)
                                        Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.
                            D           (Evaluation)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of
knowledge for a specific task. (Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject no directly related to
any specific task, or for a subject common to several tasks.


                                         Additional Codes and Identifiers
                Indicates core task. Core tasks are critical for 5- and 7-level personnel; requires full support for
     5/7        training accomplishment; and is deemed critical for career progression; up-grade; and operational
                mission necessity.
                Indicates task taught at US Army / Navy Military Freefall Courses, as a prerequisite to the
     @
                Pararescue Apprentice Course.
                Indicates task taught at Air Force Open Circuit Dive Course, as a prerequisite to the Pararescue
      #
                Apprentice Course.
                Indicates task accomplished at Pararescue Emergency Medical Technician – Basic and
     %
                Paramedic Courses, as a prerequisite to the Pararescue Apprentice Course.
                Indicates task accomplished at Combat Survival Course, as a prerequisite to the Pararescue
      ^
                Apprentice Course.
      $         Indicates critical task; requires third party certification

                NOTE: Pararescue Apprentice Course does not change for wartime.


                                                        21
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                     3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                             Core
                                                     Level
References                                          Course    Trg start
                                                                           Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                   Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                          Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials


1. PHYSICAL TRAINING
1.1 Maintain Physical Training Standard
                                              5      3b                                                                      3b                         3c
TR: AFI 16-1202 Vol 1/2
2. PARARESCUE OPERATIONS

2.1 Pararescue Career Field:
2.1.1 History
                                                      A                                                                      B                          C
TR: Pararescue 50 Yrs, 1943-1999
2.1.2 Duties and responsibilities
                                                      A                                                                      B                          C
TR: AFI 36-2101, AFI 36-2201
2.1.3 AF policy directive and instructions           __                                                                      B                          C
2.1.4 Career specialty structure
                                                     __                                                                      B                          C
TR: AFI 36-2101, CFETP PART 1
2.1.5 Career progression requirements
                                             5/7     __                                                                      B                          C
TR: AFI 36-2101, CFETP PART 1
2.2 Command and Control Functions:
2.2.1 Use OPLANS / CONPLANS
                                             5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3b
TR: AFI 10-401
2.2.2 Perform crisis action team
procedures                                   5/7     __                                                                      b                          c
TR: CJCSI 3122.01A
2.2.3 Develop concepts of operations
TR: AFI 16-1202, AFDD 2-1.6,
                                                     __                                                                      b                          c
JP 3-50, Special Tactics Mission Planning
Guide
2.2.4 Doctrine, concepts of operations,
and policies governing pararescue forces     5/7     __                                                                      B                          C
TR: AFDD 2-1.6, JP 3-50
2.2.5 Tactical level planning and
operational considerations for personnel
                                             5/7     __                                                                      B                          C
recovery
TR: JP 3-50
2.2.6 Theater level personnel recovery
planning and operational considerations
                                             5/7                                                                             B                          C
for personnel recovery                               __
TR: JP 3-50
2.3 Deployment:
2.3.1 Manage deployed pararescue
assets                                       5/7     __                                                                      b                          c
TR: AFTTP 3-1.8
2.3.2 Deployed pararescue organization,
tasking, and command and control
relationships                                5/7     __                                                                      B                          C
TR: AFDD 2-1.6 AFI 16 –1202, JP 3.50,
AFTTP 3-1.8, AFTTP 3-3.8
2.4 Mission Planning:
TR: AFTTP 3-1.8, AFDD 2- 6.1, AFDD 2-
8, AFI 16-1202, Special Tactics Mission
Planning Guide
2.4.1 Analyze air tasking order (ATO) or
                                             5/7     __                                                                      b                          c
other mission tasking
2.4.2 Analyze the proposed operation         5/7     __                                                                      b                          c




                                                                            22
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                       3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                               Core
                                                       Level
References                                            Course    Trg start
                                                                             Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                     Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                            Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

2.4.3 Construct a time table using reverse
                                               5/7     __                                                                      b                          c
planning
2.4.4 Evaluate the terrain and situation       5/7      b                                                                      b                          c

2.4.5 Acquire intelligence                     5/7     __                                                                      b                          c

2.4.6 Prepare a tentative plan                 5/7      b                                                                      2b                         3c
2.4.7 General and specific team
                                                5       A                                                                      B                          _
organization
2.4.8 Develop warning order                    5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c

2.4.9 Conduct staff coordination               5/7      b                                                                      2b                         3c

2.4.10 Develop mission plan folder             5/7      b                                                                      2b                         3c

2.4.11 Develop execution plan                  5/7      b                                                                      2b                         3c
2.4.12 Chain of command for mission
                                                5       A                                                                      B                          _
tasking
2.4.13 Conduct mission brief back              5/7      b                                                                      2b                         3c
2.4.14 Supervise team inspection and
                                               5/7      b                                                                      2b                         3c
mission rehearsals
2.4.15 Plan actions at the objective           5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c

2.4.16 Conduct aircrew brief                   5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c

2.4.17 Prepare mission reports                 5/7      b                                                                      2b                         3c

2.4.18 Develop EPA                             5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c

2.4.19 Develop CSAR plan                       5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c

2.4.20 Develop triage plan                     5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c
2.4.21 Analyze infiltration and exfiltration
                                               5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c
requirements
2.4.22 Analyze communications
                                               5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c
requirements
2.4.23 ATO and CSAR special
                                               5/7      A                                                                      B                          C
instructions (SPINS)
2.4.24 Apply ethical and legal
responsibilities for personnel and materiel
                                               5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c
recovery ops
TR: AFI 34-242
2.5 Perform Aircraft Accident Duties
for:
TR: AFI 34-242
2.5.1 Security                                  5      __                                                                      b                          __

2.5.2 Marking                                   5      __                                                                      b                          __

2.5.3 Recording                                 5      __                                                                      b                          __

2.5.4 Human remains / materiel removal          5      __                                                                      b                          __
2.6 Conduct Personnel / Materiel
Recovery Element Leader Procedures
                                                5      __                                                                      3c                         ---
TR: AFTTP; 3-3.8; AFTTP 3-1.8; AFI 16-
1202




                                                                              23
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                       3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                               Core
                                                       Level
References                                            Course    Trg start
                                                                             Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                     Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                            Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

2.7 Conduct Personnel / Materiel
Recovery Team Leader Procedures
                                                7      __                                                                      __                         3c
TR: AFTTP 3-3.8; AFTTP 3-1.8; AFI 16-
1202
2.8 Intelligence:
TR: JP 3-50, AFI 16-1202,
AFDD 2-1.6, JP 3-30, AFTTP 3 -1.8
2.8.1 Intelligence elements from:

2.8.1.1 Friendly order of battle               5/7      A                                                                      B                          C

2.8.1.2 Enemy order of battle                  5/7      A                                                                      B                          C

2.8.1.3 Aerial and surface reconnaissance      5/7      A                                                                      B                          C

2.8.1.4 Survivor information                   5/7      A                                                                      B                          C

2.8.2 Intelligence Elements for:

2.8.2.1 Accuracy                                5       A                                                                      C                          __

2.8.2.2 Map preparation                         5       A                                                                      C                          __

2.8.2.3 Weather and terrain analysis            5      __                                                                      C                          __

2.8.2.4 Operations analysis                     5      __                                                                      C                          __
2.9. Infiltration and Exfiltration:
TR: JP 3.50, AFTTP 3-1.8, AFTTP 3-3.8,
AFDD 2-1.6, AFI 16-1202
2.9.1 Modes, means, and methods of
                                                5       A                                                                      C                          __
transportation
2.9.2 Types of infiltration and exfiltration    5       B                                                                      C                          __
2.9.3 Planning factors for conducting a
                                                5       A                                                                      C                          __
mission
2.10 Communications:
TR: AFTTP 3-1.8, AFTTP 3-1.33,
AFI 16-1202, AFTTP 3-1, Vol 24,
JP 3-50, DoDI 5200.1R, AFI 33-201
NOTE: Use applicable radio TRs as
needed
2.10.1 Communication Capabilities of:
2.10.1.1 Survival radios (PRC-112-series,
                                                5       A                                                                      C                          __
PRC-90, CSEL)
2.10.1.2 Inter-team radios (PRC-148)            5       A                                                                      C                          __
2.10.1.3 Short-range radios (PRC-117
                                                5       A                                                                      C                          __
series)
2.10.1.4 Long-range radios                      5       A                                                                      C                          __
2.10.1.5 Tags, trackers, locaters (TTL),
                                                5       A                                                                      C                          __
and blue force trackers (BFT)
2.10.1.6 Quick draw                                    __                                                                      __                         __
2.10.2 Operate secure and non-secure
                                                5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
communication devices
2.10.3 Perform communication
                                                5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
procedures




                                                                              24
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                      3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                              Core
                                                      Level
References                                           Course    Trg start
                                                                            Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                    Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                           Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials


2.10.4 Use communications networks                    __                                                                      __                         __

2.10.5 Use visual signals                      5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
2.11 Effects and operational
considerations on pararescue
operations for the following
environments:
TR: AFI 16-1202, AFTTP 3-3.8, FM 3-
05.132, FM 3-05.212, FM 3-97.6, FM 90-
5, FM 3.06, FM 31-71, FM 31-70
2.11.1 Nuclear                                        __                                                                                                 __

2.11.2 Chemical                                5      __                                                                      B                          __

2.11.3 Biological                              5      __                                                                      B                          __

2.11.4 Desert                                  5      __                                                                      B                          __

2.11.5 Jungle                                  5      __                                                                      B                          __

2.11.6 Arctic                                  5      __                                                                      B                          __

2.11.7 Mountain                                5      __                                                                      B                          __

2.11.8 Urban                                   5      __                                                                      B                          __

2.11.9 Water                                   5      __                                                                      B                          __

3. AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS
3.1 Air Crew Duties (Day / Night):
TR: AFI 11-202 V3, AFI 13-217,
AFI 11-235, AFI 11-218, AFI 16-1202,
AFI 11-410, AFI 11-401, AFPD 11-4,
AFI 11-409, AFI 11-301V1, FM 3-05.210,
JP 3-50
NOTE: Use applicable Mission Design
Series (MDS) 11 series/Technical Orders
(T.O) and applicable weapons TRs when
needed
3.1.1 General flight rules                     5       B                                                                      __                         __
3.1.2 Perform aircraft emergency and
                                               5      2b                                                                      3b                         __
egress procedures on mission aircraft
3.1.3. Aircrew qualification concepts:

3.1.3.1 Air Force publications and T.O.s       5       A                                                                      B

3.1.3.2 AFTO form 781 series                   5       A                                                                      B

3.1.3.3 Flight crew information file (FCIF)    5       A                                                                      B
3.1.3.4 Aviation service, aeronautical
                                               5       A                                                                      B
ratings, flight pay, and badges
3.1.3.5 AF form 8 and FEF                      5       A                                                                      B

3.1.3.6 Aircrew training program               5       A                                                                      B

3.1.3.7 Career ladder progression              5       A                                                                      B

3.1.3.8 Safety precautions                     5       A                                                                      B



                                                                             25
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                      3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                              Core
                                                      Level
References                                           Course    Trg start
                                                                            Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                    Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                           Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials


3.1.3.9 Pararescue duties                      5       A                                                                      B

3.1.3.10 Aircraft oxygen systems               5       A                                                                      B
3.1.3.11 Operation and components of
                                               5       A                                                                      B
auxiliary systems
3.1.3.12 Operation and components of
                                               5       A                                                                      B
hydraulic systems
3.1.3.13 Operation and components of
                                               5       A                                                                      B
flight control systems
3.1.3.14 Operation and components of
                                               5       A                                                                      B
rotor systems
3.1..3.15 Operation and components of
                                               5       A                                                                      B
fuel systems
3.1.3.16 Operation and components of
                                               5       A                                                                      B
propeller systems
3.1.3.17 Cargo loading/unloading and the
                                               5       A                                                                      B
utilization of cargo restraint devices
3.1.3.18 Components and operation of
                                               5       A                                                                                                 __
aircraft weapons systems
3.1.4 Configure aircraft with pararescue
                                               5      2b                                                                      3b                         __
mission equipment and litters
3.1.5 Perform scanner duties                   5      __                                                                      --                         __

3.1.6 Perform aerial search procedures         5      __                                                                      3b                         __

3.1.7 Perform aerial site evaluation           5      __                                                                      3c

3.1.8 Perform en-route flight following        5      __                                                                      3c
3.1.9 Perform night vision goggle
                                               5      __                                                                      3b                         __
operations
3.1.10 Perform situational medical
exercise (SME) on rotary-wing aircraft (in-    5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
flight or static)
3.1.11 Perform SME on fixed-wing aircraft
                                               5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
(in-flight or static)
3.1.12 Operate aircraft intercom system        5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

3.1.13 Operate aircraft hoist system                  __                                                                      2b                         __
3.1.14 Forward area rearming and
                                                      __                                                                      __                         __
refueling point (FARRP) operations
3.1.15 Marshall aircraft                       5       a                                                                      b                          __
3.1.16. Perform helicopter landing zone
                                               5      __                                                                      3b                         __
(HLZ) duties
3.1.17 Perform drop zone control officer
                                                      __                                                                      __                         __
(DZCO) duties
3.1.18 Perform single ship F / W air-land
                                                      __                                                                      3b                         __
operations
3.1.19 Perform trans-load operations           5      __                                                                      3b                         __

3.1.20 Perform survivor recovery for:

3.1.20.1 Land                                  5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

3.1.20.2 Water                                 5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
3.1.21 Handle patients and litters in
                                               5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
aircraft


                                                                             26
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                        3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                                Core
                                                        Level
References                                             Course    Trg start
                                                                              Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                      Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                             Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

3.2 Perform Alternate Insertion
Extraction (AIE) Duties Using:
TR: AFI 16-1202, AFTTP 3-1.8, AFTTP 3-
3.8, SOCOM M 350-6, FM 31-20-5, STS
Operator Checklist
NOTE: Use applicable MDS specific
operations procedures/TOs as needed
3.2.1 Day rapid with / without vehicle on /
                                                        __                                                                      __                         __
off-load
3.2.2 Night rapid with / without vehicle on /
                                                        __                                                                      __                         __
off load
3.2.3 Day hoist operations                       5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

3.2.4 Night hoist operations                     5       b                                                                      3c                         __

3.2.5 Litters during hoist operations            5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

3.2.6 Tag-line during hoist operations           5      2b                                                                      3c                         3c
3.2.7 Barrel-man technique during litter
                                                        __                                                                      2b                         3c
hoist operations
3.2.8 Day rappel                                 5      3b                                                                      3c                         __

3.2.9 Night rappel                               5       b                                                                      3c                         __

3.2.10 Day free-fall swimmer                     5      3b                                                                      3c                         __

3.2.11 Night free-fall swimmer                   5       b                                                                      3c                         __

3.2.12 Day rope ladder                           5      3b                                                                      3c                         __

3.2.13 Night rope ladder                         5       b                                                                      3c                         __
3.2.14 Day fast rope insertion and
                                                 5      3b                                                                      3c                         __
extraction system (FRIES) insertion
3.2.15 Night FRIES insertion                     5       b                                                                      3c                         __

3.2.16 Short haul                                       __                                                                      __                         __

3.2.17 Equipment deployment                      5      __                                                                      3c                         __

3.2.18 Inflatable watercraft using:
3.2.18.1 Rigging alternate method zodiac
                                                 5       b                                                                      3b                         3c
(RAMZ)
3.2.18.2 Hard duck - combat rubber
                                                        __                                                                      __                         __
raiding craft (CRRC)
3.2.18.3 Soft duck                                      __                                                                      __                         __

3.2.18.4 Tethered duck                           5      __                                                                      3c                         __
3.3 Perform Parachute Jumps Using:
TR: AFI 11-410, AFI 16-1202, AFI 11-
411(I), AFI 11-409, AFI 11-231, AFTTP 3-
1.8, AFTTP 3-3.8
NOTE: Use applicable equipment and
parachute manufacturer instructions and
references when needed.
3.3.1 Day land full equipment static line       5/7     2b                                                                      3b                         3c

3.3.2 Night land full equipment static line     5/7     2b                                                                      3b                         3c



                                                                               27
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                    3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                            Core
                                                    Level
References                                         Course    Trg start
                                                                          Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                  Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                         Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

3.3.3 Day SCUBA full equipment static
                                            5/7     2b                                                                      3b                         3c
line
3.3.4 Night SCUBA full equipment static
                                            5/7     2b                                                                      3b                         3c
line
3.3.5 Day SCUBA full equipment MFF          5/7     2b                                                                      3b                         3c

3.3.6 Night SCUBA full equipment MFF        5/7     2b                                                                      3b                         3c

3.3.7 Day land full equipment / O2 HALO     5/7      @                                                                      3b                         3c

3.3.8 Night land full equipment / O2 HALO   5/7      @                                                                      3b                         3c

3.3.9 Day land full equipment / O2 HAHO             __                                                                      __                         __
3.3.10 Night land full equipment / O2
                                                    __                                                                      __                         __
HAHO
3.3.11 Day land full equip SL Ram Air               __                                                                      3b                         3c

3.3.12 Night land full equip SL Ram Air             __                                                                      3b                         3c

3.3.13 Tree letdown procedures               5      2b                                                                      3c                         --
3.3.14 Perform jumpmaster personnel
                                             5      __                                                                      3c                         ---
inspection (JMPI)
3.3.15 Employ tandem parachute
operations for:
3.3.15.1 Equipment                                  __                                                                      __                         __

3.3.15.2 Personnel                                  __                                                                      __                         __

3.3.16 Use dissimilar parachute system              __                                                                      __                         __

3.3.17 Use freefall video / photography             __                                                                      __                         __

3.3.18 Perform HAHO duties as:

3.3.18.1 Navigator                                  __                                                                      __                         __

3.3.18.2 Stackmaster                                __                                                                      __                         __
3.3.19 Use pre-breather/parachute 02
                                            5/7     __                                                                      3b                         3c
systems
3.3.20 Perform jumpmaster duties as:

3.3.20.1 Static line JM                      7      __                                                                                                 3c

3.3.20.2 MFF JM                              7      __                                                                                                 3c

3.3.20.3 Rescue JM                           7      __                                                                                                 3c
3.4. Aerial Deployment of Equipment:
TR: AFTTP 3-1.8, AFTTP 3-3.8, AFJ 13-
210, TO 13C7-51-21, TO 14D1–2–467–2,
TO 13C7-1-5, TO 13C7-1-51, TO 13C7-1-
10, TO 13C7-1-11
3.4.1 Inspect cargo parachutes              5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c

3.4.2 Pack fuel for aerial delivery         5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c
3.4.3 Pack rescue equipment for land/sea
                                            5/7     __                                                                      2b                         3c
aerial delivery
3.4.4 Determine aerial delivery methods /
                                            5/7     __                                                                      b                          c
procedures



                                                                           28
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                     3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                             Core
                                                     Level
References                                          Course    Trg start
                                                                           Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                   Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                          Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

4. Maritime and Amphibious
Operations
TR (current edition): US Navy Dive
Manual, Volumes 1, 2, 4, and 5, AFTTP 3-
1.8, AFTTP 3-3.8, FM 3-05.212
4.1 Diving Theory and Fundamentals:

4.1.1 Hazardous marine life                   5       #                                                                      B                          __

4.1.2 Dive physics principles                 5       #                                                                      B                          __

4.1.3 Dive physiology principles              5       #                                                                      B                          __

4.1.4 Dive injuries and treatments            5       #                                                                      B                          __

4.1.5 Perform life saving techniques          5       #                                                                      3b                         __

4.1.6 Perform safety diver duties             5       #                                                                      3b                         __
4.1.7 Use decompression tables (sea
                                              5       #                                                                      3b                         __
level / altitude)
4.1.8 No decompression limits                 5       #                                                                      B                          __

4.1.9 Repetitive dive criteria                5       #                                                                      B                          __
4.1.10 Effects of tides, waves, and
currents on diving and swimming               5       #                                                                      B                          __
operations
4.2 Infiltration and Exfiltration
Methods:
4.2.1 Perform surface swimming               --       #                                                                      3b                         __
4.2.2 Perform over-the-beach (OTB)
                                                      #                                                                      __                         __
operations
4.2.3 Perform submarine operation
                                                      #
principles
4.3 Open Circuit SCUBA Diving
Procedures:
4.3.1 Dive system principles                  5       #                                                                      B

4.3.2 Nitrogen-oxygen diving principles               #                                                                      __                         __

4.3.3 Ice and cold water diving principles            #                                                                      __                         __
4.3.4 Perform dive equipment inspection
                                             5/7      #                                                                      3b                         3c
and operator maintenance
4.3.5 Perform buddy rescue using dive
                                              5       #                                                                      3c                         __
equipment
4.3.6 Perform underwater search and
recovery dives using:
4.3.6.1 Ship bottom searches                 5/7      #                                                                      3b                         3c

4.3.6.2 Pier searches                        5/7      #                                                                      3b                         3c

4.3.6.3 Circle line searches                 5/7      #                                                                      3b                         3c

4.3.6.4 Tended line searches                 5/7      #                                                                      3b                         3c

4.3.6.5 Jackstay procedures                  5/7      #                                                                      3b                         3c




                                                                            29
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                     3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                             Core
                                                     Level
References                                          Course    Trg start
                                                                           Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                   Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                          Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

4.3.6.6 Perform day subsurface objective
search and recovery procedures with and      5/7      #                                                                      3b                         3c
w/out compass
4.3.7 Perform night subsurface objective
search and recovery procedures with and      5/7      #                                                                      3b                         3c
w/out compass
4.3.8 Perform shoreline rescue for:
TR: AFTTP 3-3.8
4.3.8.1 Wet rock                                     __                                                                      2b                         __

4.3.8.2 Surf zone                                    __                                                                      2b                         __

4.3.9 Perform 33’-130’ open circuit dive              #                                                                      --                         --

4.3.10 Principles of high altitude diving     7      __                                                                      B                          C
4.3.11 Utilize specialized dive equipment:
TR: AFTTP 3-3.8
4.3.11.1 Full face masks                             __                                                                      __                         __

4.3.11.2 Underwater communication                    __                                                                      __                         __

4.3.11.3 Dry suits                                   __                                                                      __                         __

4.3.11.4 Dive propulsion vehicles (DPV)              __                                                                      __                         __

4.3.12 Waterproof equipment for:

4.3.12.1 Surface operations                   5       #                                                                      --                         __

4.3.12.2 Sub-surface operations               5       #                                                                      --                         __

4.4 Closed Circuit SCUBA Diving:
4.4.1 Perform closed circuit dive
                                                     __                                                                      __                         __
equipment inspection and maintenance
4.4.2 Perform buddy rescue using closed
                                                     __                                                                      __                         __
circuit dive equipment
4.4.3 Perform closed circuit SCUBA diving
                                                     __                                                                      __                         __
procedures
4.4.4 Perform day closed circuit compass
                                                     __                                                                      __                        ___
swims
4.4.5 Perform night closed circuit
                                                                                                                             __                         __
compass swims
4.5 Diving Medicine and
Recompression Chamber Operations:
4.5.1 Perform dive medical technician
                                                     __                                                                                                 __
(DMT) duties
4.5.2 Diving disorders not requiring
                                              5       #                                                                      C                          __
recompression therapy
4.5.3 Diving disorders requiring
                                              5       #                                                                      C                          __
recompression therapy
4.6 Perform Dive Supervisor Duties            7      __                                                                      __                         3c
4.7 Watercraft Operations:
FM 3-05.212, AFI 16-1202, , AFTTP 3-
1.8, AFTTP 3-3.8, TO 13C7-1-10,
SOCOM M 350-4 V2
4.7.1 Operate inflatable watercraft           5       b                                                                      3c                         __




                                                                            30
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                    3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                            Core
                                                    Level
References                                         Course    Trg start
                                                                          Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                  Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                         Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

4.7.2 Operate military amphibious
reconnaissance system (MARS) engine or
                                             5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
equivalent and fuel supply
TR: User Manual
4.7.3 Operate alternate rescue craft
(ARC)                                        5       b                                                                      --                         __
TR: User Manual
4.7.4 Raise/lower inflatable watercraft
                                             5       b                                                                      3c                         __
to/from larger vessels
4.7.5 Raise/lower ARC to/from larger
                                                     --                                                                     --                         __
vessels
4.7.6 Operate rigid hull watercraft                  --                                                                     --                         __

5. TACTICAL OPERATIONS
5.1 Combat Skills:
TR:, JP 3.50, USMC WP 3-35.3,
FM 3-21.75, AFTTP (I) 3-2.6 J-FIRE,
AFTTP 3-1.8, STP 21-1 SMCT , STP 21-
24-SMCT, Ranger Handbook
5.1.1 Perform day navigation
                                             5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
TR: FM 3-25.26, AFI 16-1202
5.1.2 Perform night navigation
                                             5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
TR: FM 3-25.26, AFI 16-1202
5.1.3. Operate GPS receiver
                                             5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
TR: User Manual
5.1.4 Perform water crossing using:
TR: FM 90-3, AFI 16-1202
5.1.4.1 Individual techniques                5       b                                                                      2b                         __

5.1.4.2 Team techniques                      5       b                                                                      2b                         __

5.1.5 Use camouflage                         5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

5.1.6 Use cover and concealment              5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

5.1.7 Use tactical equipment and clothing    5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

5.1.8 Use night vision devices               5      2b                                                                      3b                         __

5.1.9 Use tactical litter                    5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

5.1.10 Construct improvised shelters         5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

5.1.11 Perform small team formations         5       a                                                                      3b                         __

5.1.12 Perform arm and hand signals          5      2b                                                                      3b                         __

5.1.13 Perform danger area crossings         5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

5.1.14 Find rally points                     5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
5.1.15 Conduct objective area
                                             5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
reconnaissance
5.1.16 Perform friendly contact
                                             5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
procedures
5.1.17 Conduct survivor contact
                                             5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
procedures
5.1.18 Conduct survivor link-up              5      2b                                                                      3c                         __




                                                                           31
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                      3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                              Core
                                                      Level
References                                           Course    Trg start
                                                                            Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                    Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                           Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials


5.1.19 Man tracking techniques                        __                                                                      __                         __
5.1.20 Control prisoners and non-
                                               5       b                                                                      2b                         __
belligerents
5.1.21 Perform bivouac procedures              5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

5.1.22 Use RED’s Kit                           5       b                                                                      3c                         __

5.1.23 Field security:
5.1.23.1 Perform safe passage
                                                       a                                                                      __                         __
procedures
5.1.23.2 Perform noise, light, and
                                               5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
movement discipline
5.1.24 Perform immediate action drills         5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

5.1.25 Perform live fire team maneuvers        5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

5.1.26 Perform defensive fire techniques       5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
5.1.27 Use alert pyrotechnics and
munitions                                      5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
TR: FM 3-23.30
5.1.28 Perform imminent capture actions        5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
5.1.29 Sanitize or destroy sensitive
                                               5       b                                                                      c                          __
equipment and materials
5.1.30 Conduct killed-in-action (KIA)
disposal / reporting procedures                5       b                                                                      c                          __
TR: AFI 16-1202
5.1.31 Perform team casualty procedures        5       b                                                                      c                          __
5.1.32 Perform military operations on
                                               5       b                                                                      2b                         __
urbanized terrain (MOUT)
5.1.33 Close quarter battle (CQB)
techniques:
5.1.33.1 Enter structure                       5       b                                                                      2b                         __

5.1.33.2 Move in structure                     5       b                                                                      2b                         __

5.1.33.3 Engage targets with weapons           5       b                                                                      2b                         __
5.1.33.4 Engage targets with munitions
                                               5       b                                                                      2b                         __
and pyrotechnics
5.1.33.5 Perform expedient entry and exit
                                               5       b                                                                      2b
procedures
5.1.33.6 Prepare structure for a defensive
                                               5       b                                                                      2b                         __
position
5.1.33.7 Move casualties from immediate
                                               5       b                                                                      2b                         __
battle area
5.1.33.8 Control non-lethal non-combatant
                                               5       b                                                                      c                          __
crowd
5.1.33.9 Select insertion / extraction zone    5       b                                                                      c                          __

5.1.33.10 Select equipment                     5       b                                                                      c                          __




                                                                             32
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                    3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                            Core
                                                    Level
References                                         Course    Trg start
                                                                          Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                  Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                         Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

5.1.33.11 Fixed-wing immediate close air
support (ICAS) call for fire procedures
TR: AFI 13-102 Vol II, FM 90-26, FM 55-
130, MCM 3-1 VOL I, III, & VIII, JP 3-09,
                                             5       b                                                                      c                          __
JP 3-09.1, JP 3-09-3 AFTTP 3-1.8,
AFTTP(I) 3- 2.10, AFI 13-102 Vol I & II,
AFTTP 3-1 Vol 31, STS Operator
Checklist, AFI 11-214
5.1.33.12 Rotary-wing immediate close air
support (ICAS) call for fire procedures
                                             5       b                                                                      c                          __
TR: AFI 13-102 Vol I & II, AFTTP 3-1.8,
AFTTP(I) 3-2.10, AFI 11-214
5.1.34 Conduct re-supply procedures and
                                             5       b                                                                      2b                         __
techniques
5.1.35 Perform airfield seizure for:

5.1.35.1 Strobe man duties                          __                                                                      __                         __

5.1.35.2 RATT operations                            __                                                                      __                         __
5.1.35.3 Joint casualty collection point
                                                    __                                                                      __                         __
(JCCP) operations
5.1.36 Perform combatives using:

5.1.36.1 Hand to hand                        5      __                                                                      __                         __

5.1.36.2 Improvised weapons                  5      __                                                                      __                         __

5.1.36.3 Edged weapons                       5      __                                                                      __                         __
5.2 Perform Mounted Team Movement
Using:
TR: MCWP 3-35.3, FM 90-8, FM 90-10,
FM 90-10-1, USSOCOM Convoy Ops
GTA-1
5.2.1 Tactical wheeled vehicles              5      __                                                                      2b                         __

5.2.2 Tactical watercraft                    5      __                                                                      2b                         __

5.2.3 Defensive vehicle IAD operations       5       b                                                                      2b                         __




                                                                           33
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                   3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                           Core
                                                   Level
References                                        Course    Trg start
                                                                         Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                 Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                        Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

5.3 Perform Live Fire Training Using:
TR: FM 3-23.35, AFI 16-1202, AFI 31-
207, AFI 36-2226, AFMAN 31-229,
AFMAN 36-2227 Vol 1, AFMAN 91-201,
NOTE: Use other applicable weapons
T.O./references as needed:
Handgun: T.O. 11W3-3-5-1; T.O. 11W3-
3-4-11; T.O. 11W3-3-6-1(FM 23-55);
Army TM 9-1005-317-23 & P
Rifle: TR: T.O. 11W3-5-5-41; T.O. 11W3-
5-5-42; T.O. 11W3-5-5-81 (FM 23-9);
Army TM 10-1005-319-10, Army TM 11-
5855-306-10; Army TM 9-1240-413-12&P
Ammunition types and uses: TR: T.O.
11W3-5-5-41; T.O. 11W3-5-5-42; T.O.
11W3-5-5-81 (FM 23-9); Army TM 10-
1005-319-10, T.O. 11W3-3-5-1; T.O.
11W3-3-4-11; T.O. 11W3-3-6-1(FM 23-
55); Army TM 9-1005-317-23 & P, FM 23-
31; T.O. 11W3-9-4-1; T.O. 11W3-5-5-1;
Army TM 9-1010-221-10
Grenade Launcher: TR: AFI 36-2226;
AFMAN 36-2227, Vol. 1; Army TM 9-
1010-221-10
MK-19: TR: AFI 31-305; T.O. 11W2-5-16-
1; T.O. 11W2-8-32-4; T.O. 11W2-5-18-1;
FM 3-22.27
M-2: TR: AFI 31-305; T.O. 11W2-6-3-161;
T.O. 11W2-6-3-184; T.O. 11W2-6-6-1; FM
3-22.65
M-240: TR: AFI 36-2226; AFMAN 36-
2227, Vol., 2; Army TM 9-1005-313-10
AK (Kalashnikov): STP 31-18B34-SM-
TG
Hand Grenades: TR: FM 3-23-30; STP
21-1-SMCT
5.3.1 Rifle                                 5      3b                                                                      3c                         __

5.3.2 Handgun                               5      3b                                                                      3c                         __

5.3.3 Crew-served weapons                          __                                                                      __                         __

5.3.4 Grenade launcher                      5      3b                                                                      3c                         __

5.3.5 AK-47                                         b                                                                      __                         __
5.3.6 Operate other unit assigned
                                                   __                                                                      __                         __
weapons and munitions
5.3.7 Perform weapons and ammunition
procedures for:
5.3.7.1 Safeguarding                        5       b                                                                      c                          __

5.3.7.2 Transportation                     5/7     __                                                                      b                          c
5.4. PJ-Assisted Evasion and Recovery
Duties:
TR: AFI 16-1202, AFTTP(I) 3.2.26, AFI
16-1301
5.4.1 Survival, evasion, resistance, and
                                            5       ^                                                                      B
escape (SERE) principles



                                                                          34
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                    3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                            Core
                                                    Level
References                                         Course    Trg start
                                                                          Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                  Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                         Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials


5.4.2 Areas for evasion                      5       ^                                                                      B                          __

5.4.3 Use evasion aids                       5       ^                                                                      2b                         __

5.4.4 Effects of social customs              5       ^                                                                      B                          __

5.4.5 Effects of political attitudes         5       ^                                                                      B                          __
5.4.6 Use issued and improvised
equipment under escape and evasion           5       ^                                                                      2b
conditions
5.4.7 Use issued and improvised signaling
                                             5       ^                                                                      2b                         __
devices under evasion conditions
5.4.8 Select recovery sites                  5       ^                                                                      b                          __
5.4.9 Vector recovery forces under
                                             5       ^                                                                      2b                         __
evasion conditions
5.4.10 Use EPA                               5       ^                                                                      2b

5.4.11 Use ISOPREP information               5       ^                                                                      2b                         __
5.4.12 Use advanced resistance
                                             5       --                                                                     2b                         __
techniques
5.4.13 Use restraint escape techniques       5       --                                                                     2b                         __
6. TECHNICAL RESCUE AND
RECOVERY OPERATIONS
6.1 Perform Technical Rescue and
Recovery for:
6.1.1 Confined space
TR: DOT Standard Confined Space              5      __                                                                      3b                         __
Rescue
6.1.2 Swift water
                                            --      __                                                                      --                         __
TR: AFTTP 3-3.8
6.1.3 NASA Astronauts
                                                    __                                                                      __                         __
TR: DDMS Con Ops (NASA)
6.2 Land Party Search:
TR: AFTTP 3-3.8 FM 3-97.61
6.2.1 Land search requirements               5       B                                                                      C                          __

6.2.2 Prepare search plans                  5/7      b                                                                      2b                         __

6.2.3 Perform search party duties            5      2b                                                                      3b                         __
6.3 Low- and High-Angle Rescue
Fundamentals:
TR : AFTTP 3-3.8, FM 3-97.61
6.3.1 Knot classifications                   5       B                                                                      __                         __

6.3.2 Tie knots                              5      2b                                                                      __                         __

6.3.3 Perform rope management                5      2b                                                                      __                         __
6.3.4 Perform mountain walking
                                             5      2b                                                                      __                         __
techniques
6.3.5 Perform balance climbing
                                             5      2b                                                                      __                         __
techniques
6.3.6 Select routes                          5      2b                                                                      __                         __

6.3.7 Care for climbing equipment            5      2b                                                                      3b                         __




                                                                           35
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                    3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                            Core
                                                    Level
References                                         Course    Trg start
                                                                          Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                  Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                         Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials


6.3.8 Use belay systems                      5      2b                                                                      3b                         __

6.3.9 Use climbing communications            5      2b                                                                      3b                         __

6.3.10 Perform rope ascent using:

6.3.10.1 Friction knots                      5      2b                                                                      3b                         __

6.3.10.2 Ascending devices                   5      2b                                                                      3b                         __

6.3.11 Perform lead protection placement:

6.3.11.1 Aided                               5       --                                                                     3b                         __

6.3.11.2 Unaided                             5      __                                                                      3b                         __
6.4 Construct Anchors
TR (current editions):                       5      2b                                                                      __                         __
FM 3-97.61 AFTTP 3-3.8
6.5 Rappel Using:
TR (current editions):
FM 3-97.61 AFTTP 3-3.8
6.5.1 Standard and non-standard
                                             5      2b                                                                      3b                         __
techniques
6.5.2 Knot bypass procedures                 5      2b                                                                      3b                         __

6.5.3 Retrievable rappel system              5      2b                                                                      3b                         __
6.6 Snow and Ice Climbing:
TR (current editions):
FM 3-97.61 AFTTP 3-3.8
6.6.1 Perform ice axe arrest                 7      __                                                                      __                         2b

6.6.2 Perform cramponing                     7      __                                                                      __                         2b

6.6.3 Construct snow and ice anchors         7      __                                                                      __                         2b

6.6.4 Place protection                       7      __                                                                      __                         2b
6.7 Snow and Glacier Travel:
TR (current editions):
FM 3-97.61 AFTTP 3-3.8
6.7.1 Use movement fundamentals              7      __                                                                      __                         2b
6.7.2 Terrain characteristics affecting
                                             7      __                                                                      __                         B
travel
6.7.3 Use skiing techniques                  7      __                                                                      __                         2b

6.7.4 Use snow shoeing techniques            7      __                                                                      __                         2b

6.7.5 Use crevasse rescue procedures         7      __                                                                      __                         2b
6.8 Avalanche Hazard and Rescue:
TR (current editions):
FM 3-97.61 AFTTP 3-3.8
6.8.1 Avalanche causes                      5/7     __                                                                      B
6.8.2 Avalanche hazard prediction
                                            5/7     __                                                                      B
methods
6.8.3 Avalanche survival actions            5/7     __                                                                      B




                                                                           36
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                  3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                          Core
                                                  Level
References                                       Course    Trg start
                                                                        Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                       Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

6.8.4 Avalanche rescue equipment
                                          5/7     __                                                                      B
requirements
6.8.5 Perform avalanche rescue             5      __                                                                      2b                         --

6.8.6 Perform avalanche hazard crossing    5      __                                                                      2b                         --
6.9 Mountain Evacuation Operations:
TR (current editions):                            __                                                                      __
FM 3-97.61, AFTTP 3-3.8
6.9.1 Use haul line rescue and recovery
                                           5      2b                                                                      3b                         __
methods
6.9.2 Perform downhill evacuation
methods using:
6.9.2.1 Low-angle evacuation               5      2b                                                                      2b                         __

6.9.2.2 High-angle evacuation              5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

6.9.2.3 Buddy rappel                              __                                                                      __                         __

6.9.2.4 High-angle pick-off                5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

6.9.2.5 Improvised litters                 5       b                                                                      3c                         __

6.9.2.6 Suspension traverse method         5      __                                                                                                 __

6.9.2.7 Rescue belay system                5      2b                                                                      3c                         __

6.9.2.8 System knot bypass                 5       --                                                                     3c                         __
6.10. Perform Tree Rescue and
Recovery Procedures                        5      2b                                                                      3c                         __
TR: AFI 16-1202
7. EMERGENCY MEDICAL
OPERATIONS
7.1 Obtain Initial EMT-Paramedic
                                           5       %                                                                      __                         __
National Registry Certification
7.2 Triage and Mass Casualty
Incidents:
TR (current edition): Pararescue
Medications and Procedures Handbook
7.2.1 Triage principles                    5       B                                                                      __                         __
7.2.2 Perform team member and
                                                  2b                                                                      __                         __
command responsibilities
7.2.3 Perform Recovery Team Leader
                                           5       --                                                                     __                         __
responsibilities
7.3 Treat Wounds TR (current edition):
Pararescue Medications and Procedures                                                                                     __                         __
Handbook
7.3.1. Treat Wounds                        5      2b

7.4 Treat Thermal Injuries for:
7.4.1 Burns
TR (current editions): Pararescue
                                           5      2b                                                                      __                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
PHTLS
7.4.2 Systemic Heat Injuries
TR (current editions): Pararescue
                                           5      2b                                                                      __                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
PHTLS



                                                                         37
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                   3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                           Core
                                                   Level
References                                        Course    Trg start
                                                                         Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                 Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                        Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

7.4.3 Systemic Cold Injuries
TR (current editions): Pararescue
                                            5      2b                                                                      __                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
PHTLS
7.4.3.1. Frost Bite / Trench Foot           5      2b
7.5 Administer Pararescue-Specific
Medications
                                            5      2b                                                                      __                         __
TR (current edition): Pararescue
Medications and Procedures Handbook
7.6 Perform Advanced Life Support
Emergency Procedures Using:
TR (current editions): Pararescue
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
PHTLS
7.6.1 Surgical hand and arm scrub           5      2b                                                                      __                         __

7.6.2 Sterile gloves and gown               5      2b                                                                      __                         __

7.6.3 Sterile field                         5      2b                                                                      __                         __

7.6.4 Needle cricothyroidotomy              5      2b                                                                      __                         __
7.6.5 Surgical cricothyroidotomy
TR (current edition): Pararescue            5      2b                                                                      __                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
7.6.6 Needle thoracentesis
TR (current edition): Pararescue            5      2b                                                                      __                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
7.6.7 Tubal thoracotomy (chest tube)
TR (current edition): Pararescue            5      2b                                                                      __                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
7.6.8 Urethral catheterization
TR (current edition): Pararescue            5       %                                                                      __                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
7.6.9 Suprapubic needle cystotomy
TR (current edition): Pararescue            5      2b                                                                      __                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
7.6.10 Nasogastric (NG) tube
TR (current edition): Pararescue            5       %                                                                      __                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
7.6.11 Venous cross clamping / ligation     5      2b                                                                      __                         __

7.6.12 Field amputations                    5      2b                                                                      __                         __
7.6.13 Escharotomy
TR (current edition): Pararescue            5       b                                                                      2b                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
7.6.14 Fasciotomy
TR (current edition): Pararescue            5       b                                                                      2b                         __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
7.6.15 Intraosseous fluid administration    5      2b                                                                      __                         __

7.6.16 Administer whole blood / products    5       b                                                                      __                         __

7.6.17. Hemostatic Dressing                 5       b                                                                      __                         __




                                                                          38
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                    3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                            Core
                                                    Level
References                                         Course    Trg start
                                                                          Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                  Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                         Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

7.7. Improvise Fracture Packaging and
Splinting
                                             5      2b                                                                      __                         __
TR (current edition): Pararescue
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
7.8 Treat Maxilla-Facial Injuries Dental
Emergencies
                                             5       b                                                                      2b                         __
TR: Pararescue Medications and
Procedures Handbook
7.9 Aero-Medical Evacuation Patient
Treatment Considerations for:
TR AFI 41-307
7.9.1 Decreased Partial Pressure of
                                             5       B                                                                      __                         __
Oxygen (paO2) (hypoxia)
7.9.2 Barometric pressure changes            5       B                                                                      __                         __
7.9.3 Temperature considerations;
                                             5       B                                                                      __                         __
Thermal changes
7.9.4 Decreased Humidity                     5       B                                                                      __                         __

7.9.5 High cabin noise levels                5       B                                                                      __                         __
7.10 Treat Weapons of Mass destruction
(Chemical, Biological, Radiological,         5      2b                                                                      __                         __
Nuclear, & High-Yield Explosive) Injuries
7.11 High-Altitude Illness for:
TR (current edition): Pararescue
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
Technical note 94-2 10th Mountain Div,
Wilderness Medicine
7.11.1 High Altitude Environmental
                                             5       B                                                                      2b
Considerations
7.11.2 Operational factors in High
                                             5       B                                                                      2b
Altitudes
7.11.3 Treat Altitude Medical Problems
                                             5      2b
Unrelated to Sustained Hypoxia
7.12 Treat Dive Medical Emergencies
TR (current editions): Pararescue
                                             5       b
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
US Navy Dive Manual
7.13 Pack Medical Kits
                                             5      2b                                                                      3b                         __
TR: AFI 16-1204
7.14 Perform Combat Casualty Care
SME in Conjunction with:
TR: AFI 16-1202, Vol 1
7.14.1 Parachute deployment                  5      2b                                                                      3b                         3c

7.14.2 AIE                                   5      2b                                                                      3b                         3c

7.14.3 Search environment                    5      2b                                                                      3b                         3c

7.14.4 Climbing environment                  5      2b                                                                      3b                         3c

7.14.5. Care under fire                      5      2b                                                                      3b                         3c

7.14.6 Tactical environment scenario         5      2b                                                                      3b                         3c

7.14.7. CASEVAC                              5      2b                                                                      3b                         3c




                                                                           39
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                   3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                           Core
                                                   Level
References                                        Course    Trg start
                                                                         Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                 Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                        Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

7.15 Treat Environmental Toxicological
Emergencies. TR SOF Medical
Handbook (current ed.) and Wilderness
Medicine
7.15.1. Plant induced                       5      2b                                                                      3b                         3c

7.15.2. Animal induced                      5      2b                                                                      3b                         3c
7.16 Treat Orthopedic Injuries
TR: Pararescue Medications and              5       b                                                                      2b                         __
Procedures Handbook
7.17 Treat Tactical Emergency Medical
(TME) Illnesses and Conditions:
TR: (current edition): Pararescue
                                            5       b                                                                      B                          __
Medications and Procedures Handbook,
and Wilderness Medicine: Management of
Wilderness and Environmental Medicine
8. SUPERVISION AND MANAGEMENT
8.1 Orient New Personnel
                                            7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFMAN 36-2108, AFI 36-2201
8.2 Assign Personnel to Duties
                                            7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFMAN 36-2108, AFI 36-2618
8.3 Plan Work Assignments
                                            7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFI 36-2618
8.4 Schedule Work Assignments
                                            7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFI 36-2618
8.5 Establish Supervision and
Management for:
TR: AFMAN 36-2108, AFI 36-2201, AFI
36-2502, AFI 36-2503, AFI 36-3208, AFI-
2907, AFI 36-2241
8.5.1 Work methods                          7      __                                                                      __                         __

8.5.2 Controls                              7      __                                                                      __                         __

8.5.3 Performance standards                 7      __                                                                      __                         __
8.6 Evaluate Personnel Work
Performance                                 7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFI 36-2406, AFPAM 36-2627
8.7 Resolve Personnel Work Related
                                            7      __                                                                      __                         __
Technical Problems
8.8 Counsel Personnel and Resolve
Problems                                    7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFI 36-2201, Vols 1-3, AFI 36-2241
8.9 Correct Personnel Substandard
                                            7      __                                                                      __                         __
Performance
8.10 Prepare Performance Feedback
and Reports                                 5      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFPAM 36-2627, AFI 36-2406
8.11 Prepare Awards and Decorations
                                            7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFI 36-2803
8.12 Identify Security Classification
Guides and Security Measures
                                            5      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFI 10-2005, AFI 31-401, AFI 31-501,
AFI 31-601, AFPD 31-4




                                                                          40
Tasks, Knowledge, and Technical                    3 Skill                                                             5 Skill Level              7 Skill Level




                                            Core
                                                    Level
References                                         Course    Trg start
                                                                          Tng   Trainee    Trainer    Certifier
                                                                                                                  Course    OJT        QTP   Course    OJT        QTP
                                                                         Comp   Initials   Initials   Initials

8.13 Use Unit Manpower Document
(UMD)                                        7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFPAM 36-2241
8.14 Use Unit Manning Personnel
Roster (UMPR)                                7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFPAM 36-2241
8.15 Identify Budget Management
                                             7      __                                                                      __                         __
Principles
8.16 Publications:
TR: Air Force INDEX (AFIND) 2,               5      __                                                                      __                         __
AFI 33-360, AFPD 21-3
8.16.1 Maintain section and individual
                                             5      __                                                                      __                         __
publication sets
8.16.2 Maintain Technical Orders (TOs)
                                             5      __                                                                      __                         __
and / or AFIs
8.17 Identify General Supply
Procedures                                   5      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFMAN 23-110
9. TRAINING
9.1 Determine Personnel Training
Needs                                        7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFMAN 36-2236, chap 27
9.2 Plan and Supervise Enlisted
SpecialtyTraining (EST) to:
TR: AFI 36-2201, Vols 1-3,
AFMAN 36-2236, AFI 36-2101
9.2.1 Prepare job qualification standards    7      __                                                                      __                         __

9.2.2 Conduct training                       7                                                                              __                         __

9.2.3 Counsel trainees on their progress     5      __                                                                      __                         __

9.2.4 Monitor training effectiveness for:

9.2.4.1 Career knowledge upgrade             7      __                                                                      __                         __

9.2.4.2 Job proficiency                      7                                                                              __                         __

9.2.4.3 Qualification                        7      __                                                                      __                         __
9.3 Maintain Training Records
                                             7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFI 36-2201, Vol 1
9.4 Evaluate Effectiveness of EST
Training Programs:
                                             7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFI 36-2201, Vols 1-3, AFMAN 36-
2236
9.5 Recommend Personnel for EST
Training                                     7      __                                                                      __                         __
TR: AFI 36-2201, Vols 1-3




                                                                           41
Section B – Course Objective List
Course objectives are identified in course documents maintained at individual courses. Contact the appropriate school for
more information.
Section C – Support Material
NOTE: There are currently no support material requirements. This area is reserved.
Section D – Training Course Index
This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the specialty and shows how the courses are used by
each MAJCOM in their career field training programs. Refer to Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA),
( www.etca.randolph.af.mil ) for information on AETC formal courses.


Air Force In-Residence Courses

PARARESCUE PIPELINE COURSES
     COURSE NUMBER                                    TITLE/LOCATION                                    OPR
1. L3AQR1T231-0P1A                 Pararescue Indoctrination Course                            342 TRS
                                   Lackland AFB Annex, TX

2. LCAQP1XXXX-01OA                 Air Force Combat Dive Course - Open Circuit                 HQ AETC/A3T
                                   Naval Diving Salvage Training Center
                                   NSA Panama City, FL

3. LCAZP1XXXX-01CA                 Air Force Combat Dive Course - Closed Circuit               HQ AETC/A3T
                                   Naval Diving Salvage Training Center
                                   NSA Panama City, FL

4. L1AQN1XXXX-0D0A                 US Navy Static-Line Parachutist Course                      HQ AETC/A3T
                                   Jamul, CA

5. L9AQA1XXXX-0A1A                 US Army Airborne Parachutist                                HQ AETC/A3T
                                   Ft Benning, GA

6. L9AQA1T231-0F1A                 US Army Military Freefall Parachutist                       HQ AETC/A3T
                                   Ft Bragg, NC/Yuma, AZ

7. L1AQN1XXXX-0F0A                 US Navy Freefall                                            HQ AETC/A3T
                                   Jamul, CA

8. S-V80-A                         Combat Survival Training                                    HQ 19AF/A3O
                                   Fairchild AFB, WA

9. S-V84-A                         USN Underwater Egress Training                              HQ 19AF/A3O
                                   Fairchild AFB, WA

10. L1AQC1T231-0B0A                PJ Emergency Medical Technician-Basic                       HQ AETC/A3T
                                   Kirtland AFB, NM

11. L1AQC1T231-0P0A                PJ Emergency Medical Technician-Paramedic                   HQ AETC/A3T
                                   Kirtland AFB, NM

12. L3ABP1T231-0P4B                Pararescue Apprentice Course                                HQ AETC/A3T
                                   Kirtland AFB, NM



                                                           42
SUPPLEMENTAL COURSES
    COURSE NUMBER                         TITLE/LOCATION                              OPR
1. J5AZA1T251-001      Survival Evasion Resistance and Escape (SERE) High Risk   HQAETC/A3T
                       Ft Bragg, NC, Level C

2. L9AZA1XXXX-0A0A     Airborne Jumpmaster                                       HQAETC/A3T
                       Ft Benning, GA

3. L9AZA1XXXX 0A1A     US Army Airborne Parachutist                              HQ AETC/A3T
                       Ft Benning, GA

4. L9AZA1XXXX-1M0A     Diving Medical Technician                                 HQAETC/A3T
                       Key West NAS, FL

5. L9AZA1XXXX 0F1A     US Army Military Freefall                                 HQ AETC/A3T
                       Ft Bragg, NC/Yuma, AZ

6. L3AZP1C251-0C0A     Combat Control Static Line Jumpmaster                     HQAETC/A3T
                       Pope AFB, NC

7. L9AZA1XXXX 1J0A     US Army Military Freefall Jumpmaster                      HQ AETC/A3T
                       Yuma, AZ

8. LCAQP1XXXX-0D0A     US Air Force Combat Dive Course                           HQAETC/A3T
                       Naval Diving Salvage Training Center
                       NSA Panama City, FL

9. L9AZA1XXXX-1R0A     SOF Medical Skills Sustainment Program                    HQAETC/A3T
                       Ft Bragg, NC

10. L5AZA1C451-0T0A    Reconnaissance and Surveillance Leader                    USAJFKSWC
                       Ft Benning, GA

11. L3AIRTXXXX 0B1A    Basic Instructor Course (BIC)                             HQ AETC/A3T
                       Lackland AFB, TX

12. J6AJS3S2X1-001     Training the Trainer Course                               UNIT TRAINING
                       Exportable Training (Base Education office)



OTHER GENERAL COURSES
    COURSE NUMBER                         TITLE/LOCATION                              OPR
1. S-V87-A             Arctic Survival Training                                  HQ 19 AF/A3T
                       Eielson AFB, AK                                           (AETC)

2. S-V90-A             Water Survival, Non-Parachuting                           HQ 19 AF/A3T
                       Fairchild AFB, WA                                         (AETC)




                                              43
3. S-V86-A            Water Survival Training                                  HQ 19 AF/A3T
                      NAS Pensacola, FL                                        (AETC)

4. No course number   Canadian Forces Survival Training School (CFSTS): Land   CFB 18 Wing
                      Survival
                      Edmonton, Canada


5. No course number   CFSTS: Sea Survival                                      CFB 18 Wing
                      Edmonton, Canada

6. No course number   CFSTS: Arctic Survival                                   CFB 18 Wing
                      Edmonton, Canada

7. AFSOC146002        Cross-Cultural Communications                            USAFSOS/EDRS
                      Hurlburt Field, FL


8. AFSOC147002        Dynamics of International Terrorism                      USAFSOS/EDRT
                      Hurlburt Field, FL


9. AFSOC148002        Crisis Response Management Workshop                      USAFSOS/EDRT
                      Hurlburt Field, FL


10. AFSOC149002       Joint Special Operations Planning Workshop               USAFSOS/EDRT
                      Hurlburt Field, FL


11. AFSOC155002       Introduction to Special Operations                       USAFSOS/EDRT
                      Hurlburt Field, FL


12. L3AIRTXXXX 0C1A   Student Centered Instruction                             HQ AETC/A3T



13. L3AIRTXXXX 0D1A   Training Development                                     HQ AETC/A3T



14. L3AIRTXXXX 0M1A   Training Management                                      HQ AETC/A3T



15. L3AIRTXXXX 0P1A   Technical Training Teaching Practicum                    HQ AETC/A3T



16. L3AIRTXXXX 0R1A   Technical Writer/Desktop Publishing Resident             HQ AETC/A3T




                                             44
17. L3AIRTXXXX 0S1A               Training Supervisor                                               HQ AETC/A3T



18. L3AIRTXXXX 0T1A               Technical Writer Principles                                       HQ AETC/A3T



19. L2AZR2T151 0M0A               .50 Caliber Machine Gun                                           HQ AETC/A3T



20. L3AZR3P051 0W1A               MK19 Machine Gun                                                  HQ AETC/A3T



21. L3AZR3P051 0W2A               Basic Combat Convoy Course, Medium (BC3M)                         HQ AETC/A3T



22. L5AZA3P071 0S9A               Sniper (010-ASIB4)                                                HQ AETC/A3T



23. L5OZA31P3 0S1A                Ranger                                                            HQ AETC/A3T




   NOTE: Commanders may authorize unit funds to attend other DOD and non-DOD courses to meet unit, MAJCOM,
   ANG, AFRES, and theater requirements. These are generally task specific courses. Examples include but are not
   limited to, practical shooting, small rubber boat repair, technical rock climbing, civilian Search and Rescue (SAR),
   and self-defense courses.


QUALIFICATION TRAINING PLAN INDEX
             QTP                                               TITLE                                     OPR
NOTE: No QTPs


TASKS, CONDITIONS, AND STANDARDS
       TITLE                                               URL                                           OPR
Pararescue TCS          https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/ClosedCoP.asp?Filter=OO-OP-SO-07   AF/A30-AS


PARARESCUE SYLLABUS OF INSTRUCTION
SYLLABUS TITLE                                             URL                                           OPR
IFAM                    https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/ClosedCoP.asp?Filter=OO-OP-SO-07   AF/A30-AS
Element Leader          https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/ClosedCoP.asp?Filter=OO-OP-SO-07   AF/A30-AS
Recovery Team           https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/ClosedCoP.asp?Filter=OO-OP-SO-07   AF/A30-AS
Leader
Pararescue Trainer      https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/ClosedCoP.asp?Filter=OO-OP-SO-07   AF/A30-AS

                                                            45
Pararescue Instructor   https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/ClosedCoP.asp?Filter=OO-OP-SO-07   AF/A30-AS
Rescue Jumpmaster       https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/ClosedCoP.asp?Filter=OO-OP-SO-07   AF/A30-AS
Dive Supervisor         https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/ClosedCoP.asp?Filter=OO-OP-SO-07   AF/A30-AS



EXTENSION COURSE (ECI) COURSES
       COURSE NUMBER                                           TITLE                                     OPR
None


EXPORTABLE COURSES
       COURSE NUMBER                                           TITLE                                     OPR
None


COURSES UNDER DEVELOPMENT/REVISION
       COURSE NUMBER                                           TITLE                                     OPR
L3AZP1T251-000                    Pararescue Medical Recertification                                342 TRS/A3RM


Section E – MAJCOM Unique Requirements

MAJCOM COURSES
       COURSE NUMBER                                           TITLE                                     OPR
ANG11000-003                      ANG Military Freefall HGRP                                        ANGRC/A3T




                                                            46
                                               Attachment 1

                GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

JP 3-50, Personnel Recovery, 05 Jan 07
JP 3-09, Joint Fire Support, 13 Nov 06
JP 3-09.1, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Laser Designation Operations, 28 May 1999
JP 3-09.3, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Close Air Support (CAS), 3 Sep 2003, CH 1, 2 Sep 05
AFDD 2-1.6, Personnel Recovery Operations, 01 Jun 05
AFDD 2-1.3, Counterland Operations, 11 Sep 06
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, 13 Apr 06
AFI 10-401, Air Operations Planning and Execution, 7 Dec 06
AFI 10-2005, Defensive Counterinformation Security and Classification Guide, 14 Aug 02
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 01 Sep 04
AFPD 16-12, Pararescue, 1 Jul 98
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 14 Jan 05
AFI 11-202 Vol 2, Aircrew Standardization and Evaluation Program, 8 Dec 06
AFI 11-202 Vol 3, General Flight Rules, 5 Apr 06
AFI 11-214, Air Operations Rules and Procedures, 22 Dec 05
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program, 6 Apr 05
AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the Ground, 22 Dec 05
AFI 11-231, Computed Air Release Point Procedures, 31 Aug 05
AFI 11-301 Vol 1, Aircraft Life Support (ALS) Program, 19 Jul 02
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 7 Mar 07
AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service Rating and Aeronautical Badges, 29 Jul 03
AFI 11-409, High Altitude Airdrop Mission Support Program, 1 Dec 99
AFI 11-410, Personnel Parachute Program, 20 May 04
AFJ 13-210, Joint Airdrop Inspection Records, Malfunction Investigations, and Activity Reporting, 1 May 98
AFI 13-217, Drop Zone and Landing Zone Operations, 10 Mar 07
AFI 16-1202, Pararescue Operations Techniques and Procedures, 3 May 01
AFI 16-1202 Vol 1, Pararescue and Combat Rescue Officer Training Program, 29 Mar 07
AFI 16-1202 Vol 2, Pararescue ad Combat Rescue Officer Standardization and Evaluation, 11Feb 08
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape Program, 6 Sep 06
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 1 Sep 99
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 1 Sep 99

                                                      47
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 Nov 05
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 Jan 05
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management, 29 Jun 05
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 06
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, 7 Jan 05
AFPD 36-22, Military Training, 22 Mar 04
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 7 Mar 06
AFI 36-2201 Vol 1, Training Development Delivery and Evaluation, 1 Oct 02
AFI 36-2201 Vol 2, Air Force Training Program Training Management, 13 Jan 04
AFI 36-2201 Vol 3, Air Force Training Program On-the-Job Training Administration, 04 Feb 05
AFI 36-2201 Vol 5, Air Force Training Program Career Field Education and Training, 08 Jun 04
AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program, 26 Feb 03
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 15 Apr 05
AFI 36-2502, Airmen Promotion Program, 6 Aug 02
AFI 36-2503, Administrative Demotion of Airmen, 20 Jul 94
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, 15 Jun 01
AFI 36-2907, Unfavorable Information File (UIF) Program, 17 Jun 05
AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, 9 July 04
AFMAN 11-411 (I), Special Forces Military Free-fall Operations, 6 Apr 05
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 Apr 08
AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual, 12 May 04
AFMAN 35-101, Public Affairs Policy and Programs, 29 Nov 05
AFMAN 36-2227 Vol 1, Combat Arm Training Programs Individual Use of Weapons, 21 May 04
AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors, 12 Nov 03
AFMAN 36-2227, Vol 1, Combat Arms Training programs Use of Individual Weapons, 21 May 04
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 18 Oct 01
AFPAM 36-2211, Guide for Management of Air Force Training Systems, 1 Nov 94
AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide, 1 Jul 07
AFPAM 36-2627, Airmen and NCO Performance Feedback System (EES), 1 Aug 97
AFPD 21-3, Technical Orders, 10 Jul 06
AFPD 31-4, Information Security, 1 Apr 00
AFTTP 3-1 Vol 31 (S), Tactical Employment of the HH-60, 25 Dec 2003
AFTTP 3-1.8 (S), Tactical Employment of Guardian Angel & Special Tactics, 1 Apr 06
AFTTP 3-2.10, JAAT: Multiservice Procedures for Joint Air Attack Team Operations, 3 June 1998
AFTTP 3-3.8, Combat Fundamentals—Guardian Angel and Special Tactics Forces, 1 Jul 06

                                                     48
AFTTP (I) 3.2-26, Multi-Service Procedures for Survival, Evasion and Recovery, 1 Mar 07
AFTTP 3-2.6, J-Fire Multiservice Procedures for the Joint Application of Firepower, 1 Nov 97
AFTTP 3-3 Vol 24, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals - HH-60 Helicopter, 25 Dec 03
AFTTP 3-3.33, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals-HC/MC-130, 15 Apr 05
CJCSM 3122.01A, Joint Operation Planning and Execution System, Volume I, 29 Sep 06
FM 3-21.75, The Warrior Ethos and Soldier Combat Skills, 28 Jan 08
FM 3-05.132, Army Special Operations Forces Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations,
31 Aug 07
FM 3-05.210, Special Forces Air Operations, 31 Aug 04
FM 3-05.212, Special Forces Waterborne Operations, 31 Aug 04
FM 3-06, Urban Operations, 26 Oct 06
FM 3-22.9, Rifle Marksmanship M16A1, M16A2/3, M16A4 and M4 Carbine, 24 Apr 03
FM 3-22.27, MK 19, 40-mm Grenade Machine Gun, MOD 3, 28 Nov 03
FM 3-22.30, 40-MM Grenade Launcher, M203, 13 Feb 03
FM 3-22.68, Crew-Served Machine Guns, 5.56-mm and 7.62, 31 Jan 03
FM 3-23.30, Grenades and Pyrotechnic Signals (Change 1, 27 Nov 06), 7 Jun 07
FM 3-23.35, Combat Training With Pistols, M9 and M11, 25 Jun 03
FM 3-25.26, Map Reading and Land Navigation, 18 Jan 05
FM 3-97.6, Military Mountaineering, 28 Nov 00
FM 3-97.61, Military Mountaineering (Incl C-1), 20 Feb 03
FM 23-14, M249 Light Machine Gun in the Automatic Rifle Role, 26 Jan 94
FM 23-31, 40-mm Grenade Launcher, M203, 20 Sep 94
FM 31-70, Basic Cold Weather Manual, 12 Apr 68
FM 31-71, Northern Operations, 12 Jun 71
FM 90-3, Desert Operations, 24 Aug 93
FM 90-5, Jungle Operations, 16 Aug 82
FM 90-8, Counter Guerrilla Operations, 29 Aug 86
FM 90-10, Military Operations on Urbanized Terrain (MOUT), 15 Aug 79
FM 90-10.1, An Infantryman’s Guide Combat in Built-Up Areas, 12 May 93
FM 90-13, River Crossing Operations, 26 Jan 98
FM 90-26, Airborne Operations, 18 Dec 90
MCWP 3-35.3, Military Operations on Urbanized Terrain, 03
SS521-AG-PRO-010, US Navy Diving Manual Rev. 6, 15 April 08
SG 21-76, Ranger Handbook, 1 Apr 2000
Pararescue Medications and Procedures Handbook, Current Edition


                                                    49
Pre-Hospital Trauma Life Support (PHTLS),
SOCOM Manual 350-4 Vol 2
SOCOM Manual 350-6
SOF Medical Handbook, 1 Jun 2001
Special Tactics Operator Checklist,
STP-21-1 SMCT, Soldier's Manual of Common Tasks, Skill Level 1. 1 Oct 01
STP 21-24-SMCT, Soldier's Manual of Common Tasks, Skill Levels 2-4, 1 Oct 01.
STP 31-18B34-SM-TG, Soldier’s Manual and Trainer’s Guide MOS 18B Special Forces Weapons Sergeant
Skill Levels 3 and 4, 15 Oct 04
TO 13C7-51-21, Airdrop of Supplies and Equipment: Rigging Loads For Special Operations, 19 Sep 07
TO 13C7-1-5, Airdrop of Supplies and Equipment: Rigging Airdrop Platforms, 22 Aug 01
TO 13C7-1-10, Airdrop Derigging and Recovery Procedures, 7 Oct 04
TO 13C7-1-11, Airdrop of Supplies and Equipment: Rigging Containers, 8 Dec 92
TO 13C7-1-51, Airdrop of Supplies and Equipment: Dual Row Airdrop Systems, 1 Apr 02
TO 14D1–2–467–2, Unit and Intermediate Direct Support (DS) Maintenance Manual for Parachute, Personnel
Type: 35-Foot Diameter, T-10C Troop Back Parachute NSN 1670-01-248-9502, 30 Aug 01
USSOCOM Convoy Ops GTA-1, Oct 04
USMC WP 3-35.3, Military Operations on Urbanized Terrain, 16 Apr 98
Wilderness Medicine: Management of Wilderness and Environmental Medicine,

Abbreviations and Acronyms


AFI - Air Force Instruction
AFPD – Air Force Policy Document
AFS – Air Force Specialty
AFSC - Air Force specialty code
ANG - Air National Guard
AO – Aeronautical Orders
ARC – Air Reserve Component
ARMS – Aviation Resource Management System
CC – Commander
CFETP – Career Field Education and Training Plan
CRO – Combat Rescue Officer
EMT – Emergency Medical Technician
FCIF – Flight Crew Information File
FEF – Flight Evaluation Folder

                                                   50
FM – Functional Manager
FRF – Flight Records Folder
HARM – Host Aviation Resource Management
IDMT – Independent Duty Medical Technician
IFAM – Initial Familiarization
IP – Isolated Personnel
ITEF – Individual Training and Evaluation
IQT – Initial Qualification Training
IV – Intravenous Cannulation
JQS – Job Qualification Standard
MAJCOM - Major command
MDS – Mission Design Series
METL – Mission Essential Task Listing
MJP – Mission PJ
NCO – Non Commissioned Officer
NREMT – National Registry Emergency Medical Technician
OCR – Office of collateral responsibility
OJT – On the Job Training
OPR - Office of primary responsibility
PJ – Pararescueman
PR – Personnel Recovery
RDS – Records Disposition Schedule
SEI – Special Experience Identifier
SOI – Syllabi of Instruction
SOP – Standard Operating Procedure
TCS – Task, Condition and Standard
UTA – Unit Training Assembly


Terms
Aircrew - The total complement of rated (pilots, navigators, air battle managers, and flight surgeons), career
enlisted aviators (1AXXX Air Force Specialty Codes), and non-rated aircrew (K-, Q-, or X-prefixed Air Force
Specialty Code) personnel responsible for the safe ground and flight operation of the aircraft and onboard
systems, or for airborne duties essential to accomplishment of the aircraft’s mission. This includes members in
initial formal training for immediate assignment to an authorized operational flying position. Individuals must
be on aeronautical orders and assigned to an authorized position according to AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost
and Planning Factors, or non-rated aircrew not in an aircraft’s basic crew complement, but required for the
mission. Aircrew members perform their principal duties in-flight and their presence is required for the aircraft

                                                       51
to accomplish its primary tasked mission. Duties must be essential to operating the aircraft or mission systems
and equipment used for completing a mission, or other duties essential to the aircraft’s mission.
Certification - A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.
Core Evaluations - Core evaluations consist of: For Pararescue personnel only; the closed book examination,
physical fitness test, medical evaluation, and team employment evaluation. For Combat Rescue Officer
personnel only; the closed book exam, physical fitness test, and the CRO employment evaluations.
Element Leader - Pararescue 5-skill level qualified NCO that has completed mission upgrade training per PJ
CFETP/MAJCOM quality training plan.
Evaluator - Evaluators are qualified instructors that conduct both flight and surface related evaluations
requiring an IMT 803 or AF IMT 8/8a. As a minimum, they must meet all requirements for certifiers listed in
AFI 36-2201 Vol 3, Air Force Training Program on the Job Training Administration and be interviewed and
certified by the unit commander.
Initial Evaluation - An evaluation administered to personnel that are newly assigned 3 level graduates at their
first assignments.

Instructor - Instructors are those individuals qualified to conduct both flight and surface related task training
and certification for any task that they are trained (non-core) or certified (core) to perform. As a minimum, they
must meet all requirements for certifiers listed in AFI 36-2201 Vol 3, Air Force Training Program on the Job
Training Administration, complete a MAJCOM approved instructor upgrade and be interviewed and certified
by the unit commander.
Mission Ready - Status attained by an individual when certified in all core tasks and special qualifications
required to perform command and unit missions unless exempted or waived.
Mission Essential Task List - The complete list of mission essential tasks (METs) for any organization, also
called METL.
Non-mission-ready - Status resulting from failure in core evaluations or not trained/decertified in core task.
OJT – Individual training in designated job skills provided to individual member’s when serving in job
positions in operational units.
Qualification Expiration - The date qualification expires, normally, the last day of month, 17 months from the
last successful evaluation.
Recovery Team Leader - Pararescue 7-skill level qualified NCO that has completed mission upgrade training
per PJ CFETP/MAJCOM quality training plan.
Recurring Evaluation - An evaluation administered within a specified period of time on a recurring basis (e.g.
annually, semi-annually, bi-annually).
Re-certification Evaluation - An evaluation required due to an unsatisfactory rating on a previous evaluation
or evaluation expiration.
Task Evaluation - An evaluation given as a quality control measure to evaluate members on specific tasks or
qualifications, but not to satisfy a recurring evaluation requirement.
Standard - An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, the appropriate authority, custom, or
common consent sets up and defines to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities,
developing practices or procedures, or evaluating results.
Tasks, Conditions, and Standards - A method of evaluating performance. Defines a specific task to be
accomplished, the conditions the task is to be accomplished under, and the standard that is to be met for the
task.

                                                        52
Trainee - An individual who is undergoing training.
Task Trainer - An individual trained and qualified to teach others to perform specific tasks. Task trainers are
certified to conduct task training in non-flight related OJT tasks that they are trained (non-core) and certified
(core) to perform. They must meet all requirements for trainers listed in AFI 36-2201 Vol 3, Air Force
Training Program on the Job Training Administration. Commanders may apply further restrictions in writing.




                                                       53
