DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                              CFETP 2A6X5
Headquarters US Air Force                                                  Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                   1 May 2014




                           AFSC 2A6X5

AIRCRAFT HYDRAULIC SYSTEMS




       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION

               AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.
This page intentionally left blank
                       CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                             AIRCRAFT HYDRAULIC SYSTEMS
                                      AFSC 2A6X5

                                                   Table of Contents
PART I                                                                  Page #
Preface                                                                 2

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                           3

Section A--General Information                                          5
          Purpose of the CFETP
          Use of the CFETP
          Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B--Career Progression and Information                           6
          Specialty Description
          Career/Skill Progression
          Training Decisions
          Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs
          Career Field Path

Section C--Skill Level Training Requirements                            13
          Purpose
          Specialty Qualification Requirements

Section D--Resource Constraints                                         16
          Purpose
          Apprentice Level Training
          Journeyman Level Training
          Craftsman Level Training

Section E. - Transitional Training Guide                                16

PART II
Section A, Specialty Training Standard (STS)                            17

Section B, Course Objective List                                        18
        Measurement
        Standard
        Proficiency Level
        Course Objective List

Section C, Support Material                                             19

Section D, Training Course Index                                        19
          Purpose
          Air Force In-Resident Courses
          AU A4/6 http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/
          Exportable Courses
          Training Detachment (TD) Courses

Section E, MAJCOM Unique Requirements                                   22

OPR: 364 TRS/TRR
Certified by: HQ USAF/A4LF CMSgt Bryan Cannon
Supersedes: CFETP 2A6X5, 1 October 2010
Pages: 143


                                                          1
                   AIRCRAFT HYDRAULIC SYSTEMS SPECIALTY
                  CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                 AFSC 2A6X5

PART I

PREFACE

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education/training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for 2A6X5, Aircraft Hydraulic Systems
Specialty. The CFETP will provide personnel a clear career path to success and instills rigor in
all aspects of career field training. This CFETP supersedes 2A6X5 CFETP, 1 Oct 2010.

NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to support duty position
qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors will use both parts to plan, manage, and
control training.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies, and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (knowledge, education, training, and other).
Section D indicates resource constraints to accomplishing this plan, such as funds, manpower,
equipment, and facilities. Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt
through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A contains the course objective list and training
standards supervisors will use to determine if airmen have satisfied training requirements.
Section B identifies available support materials, such as Qualification Training Package (QTP),
which may be developed to support proficiency training. Section C identifies a training course
index that supervisors can use to determine if resources are available to support training.
Included here are both mandatory and optional courses. Section D identifies MAJCOM unique
training requirements supervisors can use to determine additional training required for the
associated qualification needs. Section E identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and
includes duties, tasks, technical references to support training; Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, core task and correspondence course requirements. At
unit level, supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan, and conduct training
commensurate with the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate point in their career. This plan will enable us to
train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.




                                                  2
ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Training. Formal course which provides individuals who are qualified in their Air
Force Specialty (AFS) with additional skills/knowledge to enhance their expertise in the career
field. Training is for selected career airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.

Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a
particular job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualifications.
The tasks of AFJQS are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive,
multipurpose document covering the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field.
It outlines a logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career
field training identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget
defensible.

Continuation Training. This is additional training that exceeds minimum upgrade requirements
and has an emphasis on present or future duty assignments.

Core Task. Tasks that the Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) identifies as minimum
qualification requirements within an Air Force Specialty regardless of duty position. Only a
percentage of critical tasks for each system are listed as mandatory core tasks. This gives units
needed flexibility to manage their workforce training.

Course Objective List (COL). A publication identifying the tasks and knowledge
requirements, and respective standards provided to achieve a 3-level in this career field.
Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-
2201, Air Force Training Program.

Course Training Standard (CTS) and description. Develop a CTS for all courses not
governed by an STS including specialized training packages and Type 6 courses. CTSs identify
the training and level of proficiency to be provided in a specific course. The document serves as
a contract between AETC and its customers. Optional supplemental training requirements are
identified in CTSs. A CTS is not required for courses programmed to be taught less than 1 year
and for orientation, refresher, seminar, and symposium courses that are 10 academic days or
fewer in length. A CTS can be developed using task or knowledge statements with proficiency
codes or behavioral statements which describe training requirements without the use of
proficiency codes.

Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal
training (on-the-job) to qualify and upgrade airmen in each skill level of a specialty.

Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA). This database lists course
announcements for new, deleted, updated, and replaced formal courses. View courses at
https://etca.randolph.af.mil.




                                                 3
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video,
or other necessary means to supplement training.

Field Technical Training (Type 4). Special or regular on-site training conducted by a training
detachment (TD) or by a mobile training team (MTT).

Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level AFSC.

Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly process for developing,
validating, and reviewing instructional programs that ensures personnel are taught the knowledge
and skills essential for successful job performance.

Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an
occupational analysis of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training at the duty location used to
certify personnel for both skill level upgrade and duty position qualification.

Qualification Training (QT). Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an
airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the
upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skill/knowledge training
required to do the job.

Qualification Training Package (QTP). An instructional course designed for use at the unit to
qualify or aid qualification in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may be
printed, computer based, or in other audiovisual media.

Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower, or
equipment that precludes desired training from being accomplished.

Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force
Specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge an airman may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. It serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the
overall training requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools, Career Development
Courses (CDCs), and exportable courses.

Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-
the-job, field training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).

Upgrade Training. A mixture of mandatory courses, task qualification, QTPs, and CDCs
required for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill levels.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum, co-chaired by the AFCFM and
Training Pipeline Manager, of MAJCOM Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) functional
managers, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and AETC training personnel that determines career
ladder training requirements.



                                                4
SECTION A - GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for Air Force
Career Field Manager (AFCFM), MAJCOM functional managers (MFMs), commanders,
training managers, supervisors, and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective
career field training program. This plan outlines the training that individuals in AFSC 2A6X5
should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This CFETP identifies
initial skill, upgrade, qualification, advanced, and proficiency training. Initial skills training is
the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining
into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. This training is conducted by AETC at Sheppard
AFB, TX. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements,
and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the 3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill levels.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade
training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills/knowledge required to do the
job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency
training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-
the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the
minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several purposes, some are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies tasks and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education/training throughout each phase of an individual's career.

1.3. Lists training courses that are available in the specialty and identifies sources of training,
and the training delivery method.

1.4. Identifies major resource constraints, which impact full implementation of the desired
career field training process.

1.5. Identifies Reserve and ANG training constraints by identifying operational core tasks.

2. Use of the CFETP. This plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure
comprehensive and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, non-resident, Training
Detachment (TD), and exportable training based upon requirements established by the users and
documented in Part II of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop
acquisition strategies for obtaining the resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade, and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, contract training, or exportable
courses can satisfy these identified requirements. MAJCOM developed training, to support this



                                                  5
AFSC, must be identified for inclusion in this plan and must not duplicate other available
training resources.

2.3. Each individual will complete the mandatory training requirements specified in this plan.
The list of courses in Part II will be used as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority. The AETC training
manager for AFSC 2A6X5 will initiate an annual review of this document by AETC and MFM
to ensure currency and accuracy. The using MAJCOM representatives and AETC training
personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using the list of
courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.

SECTION B - CAREER FIELD PROGRESSION AND INFORMATION

4. Specialty Descriptions.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Refer to Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), Part
I. Troubleshoots, removes, repairs, overhauls, inspects, adjusts, installs, and tests aircraft
hydraulic and In-flight Refueling (IFR) systems and components, including support equipment
(SE). Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 160200.

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Refer to to most current AFECD.
https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd

4.2.1. Aircraft Hydraulic Systems Apprentice and Journeyman. Advises on problems
maintaining aircraft hydraulic systems. Determines maintenance procedures and performance
characteristics using technical publications. Inspects, operates, troubleshoots, removes, repairs,
overhauls, and installs aircraft hydraulic and pneumatic systems and components, including SE.
Identifies and isolates malfunctions, services, bleeds, bench checks, rigs, and performs
adjustments to aircraft hydraulic components, associated electrical components, power systems,
landing gear, nose wheel steering, brakes, flight controls, weapons and cargo door systems, air
refueling receiving systems, IFR systems, hoist and winch systems, engine start systems,
recovery systems, arresting gear, air induction systems, and canopy systems.

4.2.1.1. Inspects and pressure tests hydraulic hose and tube assemblies. Drains and flushes
hydraulic systems. Overhauls, repairs, adjusts, aligns, and tests hydraulic system and sub-system
components. Fabricates and bench checks hose assemblies. Operates and maintains shop
equipment.

4.2.1.2. Uses hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical/electronic principles and fundamentals, technical
orders, and schematic diagrams to isolate malfunctions. Records pertinent data on equipment
maintenance data collection forms and enters data into Maintenance Information Systems.
Maintains inspection and maintenance records. Recommends methods to improve equipment,
performance, and maintenance procedures. Handles, labels, and disposes of hazardous materials
and waste according to federal, state and local environmental standards.




                                                 6
4.2.2. Aircraft Hydraulic Systems Craftsman. Interprets publications, inspects, analyzes,
troubleshoots, performs maintenance, and provides expertise on hydraulic systems, and
associated equipment. Establishes priorities for completion of maintenance tasks and provides
assistance in solving maintenance, supply, and personnel problems. Evaluates requirements for
quality deficiency reports. Provides training and task certification for skill level advancement.
Supervises and evaluates job performance and maintenance techniques used to interpret, operate,
troubleshoot, remove, repair, service, overhaul, and install aircraft hydraulic components and SE.
Ensures hazardous materials and waste are handled, stored, and disposed of according to local,
state, and federal environmental standards. Ensures safety compliance.

4.2.3. Maintenance Superintendent. Manages maintenance and staff functions on aircraft
hydraulic, fuel, electrical, environmental, and aircrew egress systems. Interprets and evaluates
directives and publications, inspection findings, records, and reports and recommends corrective
actions. Determines operational status and evaluates operational effectiveness of aircraft and
associated systems. Inspects and evaluates maintenance activities and resolves problems.
Interprets and establishes safety and training guidelines. Plans, organizes, directs and controls
maintenance inspection, troubleshooting, and repair activities. Controls resources, and manages
funds. Manages handling, storing, and disposing of hazardous materials and waste according to
local, state, and federal environmental standards.

5. Career Skill Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to
the superintendent skill level play an important role in the Air Force's ability to accomplish its
mission. It is essential that everyone involved in training do their part to plan, develop, manage,
and conduct an effective training program. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP will
ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career.

5.1. Apprentice (3-level). Completion of a basic aircraft hydraulic systems apprentice course
is mandatory for award of AFSC 2A635. Upon completion of initial skills training, a trainee will
work with a trainer to enhance their knowledge and skills. They will utilize the CDC, QTP, and
available exportable courses for continued advancement. Once task certified, a trainee may
perform the task unsupervised. Apprentices can be considered for appointment as unit trainers
after completion of the Air Force Training Course (AFTC).

5.2. Journeyman (5-level). Once upgraded to the 5-level, the journeyman will enter into
continuation training to broaden their experience base by increasing their knowledge and skill in
troubleshooting and solving more complex problems. After having 48 months in the Air Force,
5-levels will attend Airman Leadership School (ALS) to enhance their Professional Military
Education (PME). Five-levels will be considered for appointment as unit trainers after
completion of the AFTC. Individuals will use their CDCs to prepare for Weighted Airman
Promotion testing. They should also consider continuing their education toward a Community
College of the Air Force (CCAF) degree.

5.3. Craftsman (7-level). A craftsman can expect to fill various supervisory and management
positions such as shift leader, element NCOIC, flight/section chief, maintenance expediter,
production supervisor, and task certifier. They can also be assigned to work in staff positions.
Craftsmen should take courses to obtain added knowledge on management of resources and
personnel. Continued academic education through CCAF and higher degree programs is


                                                7
encouraged. In addition, when promoted to TSgt, individuals will complete the
Noncommissioned Officer Academy Course.

5.4. Superintendent (9-level). A 9-level can be expected to fill positions such as flight chief,
production superintendent, and various staff NCOIC jobs. Additional training in the areas of
budget, manpower, resources, and personnel management should be pursued through continuing
education. Additional higher education and completion of courses outside their career AFSC are
also recommended.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the Aircraft Hydraulic Systems
Career Field. The spectrum includes a strategy for when, where, and how to meet these training
requirements. The strategy must be apparent and affordable training to reduce duplication of
training and eliminate a disjointed approach to training. The following training decisions were
made by the attendees at the career field U & TW held at Sheppard AFB, 15-17 July 2013.
(Refer to items on AF/A4LF Share Point web page)
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-LG-AF-35/default.aspx

6.1. Proficiency Training. Any additional knowledge and skill requirements, which were not
taught through initial skills or upgrade training, were assigned to continuation training. The
purpose of the continuation training program is to provide additional training exceeding
minimum upgrade training requirements with emphasis on present and future duty positions.
MAJCOMs must ensure individuals in Aircraft Hydraulic Systems career field receive the
necessary training at the appropriate point in their career.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF offers and awards job-related
associate in applied science degrees and other academic credentials that enhance mission
readiness, contribute to recruiting, assist in retention and support the career transitions of Air
Force enlisted members. The college works with Air Force training centers, regional accrediting
agencies, and hundreds of cooperating civilian colleges and universities. Since the technical
nature of most Air Force courses places them on a level with college study, Airmen earn fully
recognized college credits for most of what they learn in formal coursework and on-the-job
training. Enrollment in CCAF occurs upon completion of basic military training. CCAF
provides the opportunity to obtain a Nondestructive Testing Technology Associates Degree in
Applied Science. In addition to its associate degree program, CCAF offers the following:

7.1. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airframe and Powerplant (A&P)
Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance technicians are eligible to pursue FAA A&P
certification based on training and experience in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulation
Part 65. The DoD established the Joint Service Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification
Council (JSAMTCC) to standardize the eligibility and certification process for the military and
provide direction and resources necessary to fill the gaps within military training and experience.
Completing the Air Force A&P Certification Program, managed by CCAF, will fill training and
experience gaps, ensuring FAA eligibility. The program consists of three Air University Online
A&P Specialized Courses, OJT and experience requirements contained in a Qualification
Training Package (QTP). Technicians may enroll in the program once they have been awarded
the 5-skill level. To learn more, visit CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp .


                                                 8
CCAF awards 30 semester hours for FAA A&P certification and 18 semester hours for FAA
Airframe or Powerplant certification.

7.2. SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician Certification. Air Force aircraft maintenance
technicians are eligible to pursue SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification based on
aviation training and experience. SpaceTEC certification is endorsed by NASA and the
Aerospace industry. Air University Online offers a Specialized Course to assist technicians
prepare for the Aerospace Technician certification exams. To learn more, visit SpaceTEC at
http://www.spacetec.org/ or CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp. CCAF
awards 25 semester hours for the SpaceTEC Aerospace Technician certification.

7.3. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC) Program. CCAF offers the three-tiered CIC
Program for qualified instructors teaching at CCAF affiliated schools who have demonstrated a
high level of professional accomplishment. The purpose of the certifications is to recognize the
outstanding instructor training provided to prepare them to teach CCAF collegiate courses. The
certifications also formally acknowledge the instructor’s advanced levels of qualifications and
experience. Upon completion of the CCAF Faculty Development Program, consisting of the
Basic Instructor Course (BIC) and CCAF Teaching Internship, CCAF instructors who complete
program requirements may be nominated for certification by their school commander or
commandant. The CIC Program replaced the CCAF Occupational Instructor Certification
Program.

7.4. CCAF Instructional Systems Development (ISD) Certification Program. CCAF offers
the ISD Certification Program for qualified course/curriculum developers and managers who are
formally assigned at CCAF affiliated schools to develop and manage CCAF collegiate courses.
The purpose of the certification is to recognize the course/curriculum developer’s or manager’s
extensive training, education, qualifications and experience required to develop and manage
CCAF courses. Course/curriculum developers and managers who complete program
requirements may be nominated for certification by their school commander, commandant or
faculty development chief.

7.5. CCAF Professional Manager Certification (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC Program for
Air Force SNCO’s. The purpose of the certification is to formally recognize the individual’s
outstanding education and training required to lead and manage Air Force personnel and critical
national defense assets. It also acknowledges the individuals management qualifications and
experience in managing Air Force resources. Qualified Air Force enlisted personnel are eligible
to pursue this certification. SNCO’s who complete program requirements may be nominated for
certification by their unit commander or commandant.

7.6. CCAF Credentialing and Education Research Tool (CERT). CCAF implemented
CERT to increase awareness of professional development opportunities applicable to Air Force
occupational specialties. It is a valuable resource for Air Force enlisted personnel and provides
information related to specific AFSCs, such as: AFSC description; civilian occupation
equivalencies (US Department of Labor); CCAF degree programs; national professional
certifications; certifying agencies; DANTES testing; and professional organizations. To learn
more, visit CCAF at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.



                                                9
7.7. CCAF Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF
program. Prior to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following
requirements must be met:

                                                                        Semester Hours
Technical Education...........................................................24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ..................6
Physical Education ...............................................................4
General Education ..............................................................15
Program Elective ................................................................15
    (Technical Education; Leadership, Management,
    and Military Studies; or General Education)

                                               Total                     64

7.7.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of
Technical Core subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours applied
from Technical Core or Technical Elective subjects and courses. Completion of the initial skills
resident training at Sheppard AFB TX satisfies all or part of the technical education requirement.

7.7.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional
Military Education (PME) and/or civilian management courses.

7.7.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): This requirement is satisfied by completion of
Basic Military Training.

7.7.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): Applicable courses must meet the criteria for
application of courses to the General Education Requirements (GER) and be in agreement with
the definitions of applicable General Education subjects/courses as provided in the CCAF
General Catalog.

7.7.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Satisfied using credit otherwise not used toward
degree requirements; however, applicable as Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and
Military Studies (LMMS) or General Education subjects and courses. Nine semester hours of
CCAF degree-applicable technical credit otherwise not applicable to this program may be
applied. See the CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science
for this specialty.

7.8. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Instructor Requirements: Additional
off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals desiring to become
an AETC instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A degreed faculty is
necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.




                                                            10
8. Career Field Path

8.1. Enlisted Career Path. Table 8.1 identifies career milestones for the 2A6X5 Air Force
Specialty.

                                   Table 8.1. Enlisted Career Path
                                                                  Grade Requirements
Education and Training Requirements                 Rank      Average    Earliest    High Year Of
                                                              Sew-On     Sew-On         Tenure
                                                                                        (HYT)
Basic Military Training School
Apprentice Technical School (3-Skill Level)         Amn       6 months
                                                    A1C      16 months
Upgrade To Journeyman (5-Skill Level)               Amn       6 months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.            A1C      10 months
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job training for          SrA        3 years     28 months          8 Years
  retrainees.
- Complete all 5-level core tasks on one
  mission design aircraft (MDS).
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
  available.
Airman Leadership School (ALS)
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time in
  service or be a SSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for SSgt
  sew-on (Active Duty Only).
                    Trainer                                                  Certifier
- Qualified and certified to perform the task to   - Be at least a 5-skill level SSgt; and qualified and
  be trained.                                        certified to perform the task being certified
- Must attend the Air Force Training Course        - Must attend the Air Force Training Course
                                                   - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs,
                                                     duty positions, units and/or work centers with
                                                     specialized training standardization and certification
                                                     requirements.
Upgrade To Craftsman (7-Skill Level)                 SSgt       4.4 years       3 years         15 Years
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job training.
- Minimum 6 months on-the-job training for
  retrainees.
- Complete all 5- and 7-level core tasks on one
  MDS.
- Complete appropriate CDC if/when
  available.
- Attend Craftsman course, if applicable.
Noncommissioned Officer Academy                     TSgt     10.9 years      5 years          20 Years
(NCOA)
- Must be a TSgt or TSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for         MSgt      17 years       8 years          24 Years
  MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).




                                                    11
USAF Senior NCO Academy (SNCOA)               SMSgt   20.9 years   11 years   26 Years
- Must be a SMSgt or SMSgt Selectee.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite for
  CMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
- A percentage of top non-select (for
  promotion to E-8) MSgts attend the SNCOA
  each year.
Upgrade To Superintendent (9-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)                  CMSgt   23.9 years   14 years   30 Years




                                              12
SECTION C - SKILL LEVEL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in this career field are defined in terms of tasks
and knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for
each skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry,
award, and retention of each skill level. The specific tasks and knowledge training requirements
are identified in Part II, Section E, STS.

10. Specialty Qualification Requirements. The various skill levels in this career field are
defined in terms of tasks and knowledge proficiency requirements for each skill level. They are
stated in broad general terms and establish the standards of performance. Unit work centers must
develop a structured training program to ensure the following requirements are met.

10.1. Apprentice Level Training.

10.1.1. Specialty Qualification. This information is located in the AFECD.
https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd

10.1.1.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: electrical and mechanical principles
applying to aircraft hydraulic systems; concepts and application of maintenance directives; using
and interpretation of schematic/wiring diagrams, blueprints, and technical orders; and proper
handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste materials. Apprentices must be qualified to
remove and install system components, perform operational checks, and troubleshoot simple
malfunctions using applicable technical orders.

10.1.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
basic electronics, mathematics, general science and mechanics is desirable.

10.1.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A635, completion of aircraft hydraulic systems
apprentice course is mandatory.

10.1.1.4. Experience. There is no experience necessary for entry into AFSC 2A635.

10.1.1.5. Other. For entry into this specialty, normal color vision as defined in AFMAN 48-123
is mandatory.

10.1.2. Training Sources and Resources. The initial skills course, J3ABR2A635 0A1C,
Aircraft Hydraulic Systems Apprentice will provide the required knowledge and qualifications.
Initial skills training encompasses hydraulic system theory and operation, electrical and
electronic principles, system components, component removal and installation, introduction to
maintenance concepts, general flight line maintenance practices, use of technical publications,
maintenance documentation, and support equipment familiarization and use.

10.1.3. Implementation. Upon graduation from Basic Military Training, airmen are assigned to
the 82d Training Wing for completion of Course J3ABR2A635 0A1C, Aircraft Hydraulic
Systems Apprentice. Completion of this course will result in award of the 3-skill level.



                                               13
10.2. Journeyman Level Training.

10.2.1. Specialty Qualification. Refer to the must current AFECD. This information is located
in the AFECD.
https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd

10.2.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 3-level qualifications, a 5-level must possess the
knowledge and skills necessary to maintain hydraulic systems and associated subsystems. An
individual must have knowledge of inspecting aircraft hydraulic systems and components,
troubleshooting and correcting system malfunctions, and repairing and replacing system
components. Journeymen perform operational checks, component repair, use and maintenance
of test and support equipment. Individuals can apply the proper handling, use, and disposal of
hazardous waste and materials in accordance with local, state, and federal environmental
standards.

10.2.1.2. Education. There are no formal education requirements for upgrade to 2A655.

10.2.1.3. Training. Requirements for the Journeyman level require completion of the 5-level
CDC and completion of all 5-level core tasks on one MDS aircraft identified in the STS is
mandatory.

10.2.1.4. Experience. Possession of AFSC 2A635. Also, experience in functions such as
removing and installing system components, performing operational checks, troubleshooting
simple malfunctions using system schematics, and repairing hydraulic, mechanical, and
electrical/electronic systems, components, and SE.

10.2.1.5. Other. Normal color vision as defined in AFMAN 48-123 is mandatory.

10.2.2. Training Sources and Resources. The 5-level CDC provides the career knowledge
training required. Qualification training and OJT will provide training and qualification on the
core tasks identified in the STS. The CDC is written to build from the trainee's current
knowledge base, and provides more in-depth knowledge to support OJT requirements.

10.2.3. Implementation. The units utilizing this STS, exportable courses, and CDCs perform
training to the 5-level. Upgrade to the 5-level requires completion of the 2A655 CDC and a
minimum 12 months upgrade training.

10.3. Craftsman Level Training.

10.3.1. Specialty Qualification. Refer to most current AFECD.
https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd

10.3.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to the 5-level qualifications, an individual must possess
advanced skills and knowledge of theory, concepts, principles and application of hydraulic
systems. The 7-level must be able to supervise and train personnel to maintain hydraulic
systems. They must be able to plan, schedule, and organize maintenance to ensure effective
utilization of available resources. Knowledge is required on advanced repair, inspection,


                                                14
troubleshooting, and diagnostic techniques. Historical documentation analysis is also required
for all 7-levels.

10.3.1.2. Education. There are no additional education requirements beyond those defined for
the apprentice level.

10.3.1.3. Training. Completion of CDC 2AX7X, and completion of all required 7-level core
tasks as identified in the STS on one MDS aircraft is mandatory for upgrade to AFSC 2A675.

10.3.1.4. Experience. Possession of AFSC 2A655. Also, experience performing or supervising
functions such as inspection, maintaining, and troubleshooting aircraft hydraulic systems.

10.3.1.5. Other. Normal color vision as defined in AFMAN 48-123 is mandatory.

10.3.2. Training Sources and Resources. Qualification training and OJT will provide training
and qualification on the 7-level core tasks identified in the STS. The 7-level CDCs are written to
provide management knowledge.

10.3.3. Implementation. Upgrade to the 7-level requires completion of CDC 2AX7X ,
completion of all core tasks, a minimum 12 months upgrade training, and promotion to E-5.

10.4. Superintendent Level Training (9-Level).

10.4.1. Specialty Qualification. Refer to the most current AFECD.
https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd

10.4.1.1. Knowledge. In addition to 7-level qualifications, an individual must possess advanced
skills and knowledge of concepts and principles in the management of aircraft maintenance. The
9-level needs to be an effective leader; must be able to forecast, budget and manage funds and
other resources; and must be knowledgeable of local, state and federal environmental standards
and ensure adherence to the proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials.

10.4.1.2. Education. There are no additional requirements beyond those defined for the
apprentice level.

10.4.1.3. Training. For award of AFSC 2A690, promotion to SMSgt is mandatory.

10.4.1.4. Experience. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A675. Also, experience
managing or directing repair activities for hydraulic systems, fuel systems, electrical
environmental, egress (where applicable) and associated maintenance functions are required.

10.4.1.5. Other. Normal color vision as defined in AFMAN 48-123 is mandatory.

10.4.2. Training Sources and Resources. The Senior NCO Academy Course and OJT will be
used for training.

10.4.3. Implementation. The 9-level will be awarded after promotion to SMSgt.


                                               15
SECTION D - RESOURCE CONSTRAINTS

11. Purpose: This section of the CFETP identifies known resource constraints which preclude
optimum and desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as
cost and manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section
are actions required, office of primary responsibility, and target completion dates. Resource
constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

12. Apprentice Level Training. No Resource constraints identified.

13. Journeyman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

14. Craftsman Level Training. No resource constraints identified.

SECTION E. – TRANSITIONAL TRAINING GUIDE. There are no transition training
requirements.




                                                16
PART II

SECTION A - SPECIALTY TRAINING STANDARD

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) for classes beginning 7 May 2014.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:

2.1. Lists in the column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks,
knowledge, and technical references (TR) necessary for airmen to perform duties in the 3-, 5-,
and 7-skill level. All tasks elements with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.

2.2. Identifies in column 2 (Core Tasks) by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements.
As a minimum, certification on all AFCFM directed core tasks applicable to the specialty must
be completed for skill level upgrade. Exemptions:

2.2.1. Core tasks which are not applicable to base assigned aircraft or equipment are not
required for upgrade (units are not required to send personnel TDY for core task training).

2.2.2. For units with more than one MDS aircraft, upgrade trainees need only complete core
tasks on a single MDS aircraft. If some of these core tasks involve training in another unit on
base, trainees must still complete all core tasks relevant to at least one MDS aircraft.
Flightline-assigned personnel must complete backshop core tasks and vice versa. All units are
bound by the requirements in this CFETP and will accommodate core task trainees from other
units.

2.2.3. Units that use the GO81 maintenance data collection system do not need to complete
Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS) core tasks.

2.3. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and
knowledge training requirements. Use IMDS/GO81 to document technician qualifications, if
available. Task certification must show a certification or completed date.

2.4. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the
proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as result of training on the
task/knowledge and the career knowledge provided by the correspondence course

2.5. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the proficiency code key used to
indicate the level of training and knowledge provided by resident training and career
development courses.

2.6. Job Qualification Standard. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job
training when placed in AF Form 623, On-The-Job Training Record, and used according to
AFI 36-2201. For OJT, the tasks in column 1 are trained and qualified to the go/no go level.
"Go" means the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets local requirements



                                               17
for accuracy, timeliness, and correct procedures. When used as a JQS, the following
requirements apply:

2.6.1 Documentation. Document and certify completion of training IAW AFI 36-2201.
Automated records, utilizing MIS reflecting this STS is highly encouraged. Use of Part II and
attachments one, two and sixteen of this CFETP are mandatory in individual training records.
Use of Part I of this CFETP is optional. Use of at least one of attachments three through fifteen
is required.

2.6.1.1. Transcribing from Old CFETP to New CFETP. All AFJQSs and previous CFETPs
are replaced by this CFETP; therefore, transcribing of all training records to this CFETP STS is
mandatory. Use this CFETP STS (or automated STS) to identify and certify all past and current
qualifications. Document and certify all previous and current training IAW AFI 36-2201.

2.7. STS. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman
Promotion System (WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF
Occupational Measurement Squadron, by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in
their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS subject matter areas judged by test
development team members as most appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are
based upon study references listed in the Enlisted Promotion References and Requirements
Catalog (EPRRC). Individual responsibilities are in AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program.
WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.

3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are welcomed concerning quality of
training AETC graduates receive. Reference this STS regarding changes and address your
correspondence to 782 TRG/TGAV, 620 9th Avenue, Suite 3, Sheppard AFB TX 76311-2368. A
782d customer service information line (CSIL) has been installed for the supervisor’s
convenience to identify graduates who may have received over or under training on
tasks/knowledge items listed in this STS. For a quick response to problems, call the CSIL at
DSN 736-2574 any time (day or night) or email to 782CSIL@sheppard.af.mil.

SECTION B - COURSE OBJECTIVE LIST

4. Measurement. Each proficiency coded STS task or knowledge item taught at the technical
school is measured through the use of an objective. An objective is a written instruction for the
student so he or she knows what is expected of them to successfully complete training on each
task. Each objective is comprised of a condition, behavior, and standard which states what is
expected of the student for each task. The condition is the setting in which the training takes
place (i.e. TOs, type of equipment, etc). The behavior is the observable portion of the objective
(i.e. perform an operational check). The standard is the level of performance that is measured to
ensure the STS proficiency code level is attained. Each objective uses letter codes(s) to identify
how it is measured. All objectives using the PC code indicate a progress check is used to
measure subject or task knowledge. W indicates a comprehensive written test and is used to
measure the subject or task knowledge at the end of a block of instruction. PC/W indicates a
subject or task knowledge progress check and a separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test.



                                                18
5. Standard. The standard for written examinations is 70%. Standards for performance
objectives are indicated in the objective and are also indicated on the individual progress check
checklist. The checklist is used by the instructor to document each student’s progress on each
task. Instructor assistance is provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be
required to repeat all or part of the behavior until satisfactory performance is attained. Students
must satisfactorily complete all PCs prior to taking the written test.

6. Proficiency Level. Review column 4A of the STS to determine the proficiency level of a
particular task or knowledge item. Review the course objective list to determine which STS item
the objective supports. Review the proficiency code key in Part II, Section E of this CFETP for
an explanation of the proficiency codes. Most task performance is taught to the ‘2b’ proficiency
level which means the students can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the
hardest parts of the task (partially proficient). The student can also determine step by step
procedures for doing the task.
7. Course Objectives. A detailed listing of initial skills or craftsman course objectives may be
obtained by submitting a written request to 364 TRS/TRR, 511 9th Ave STE 1, Sheppard AFB
TX, 76311-2338.

SECTION C - SUPPORT MATERIAL

8. The following list of support material is not all inclusive; however, it covers the most
frequently referenced areas. Support material is any training package designed to enhance the
learning process at any level of training. Refer to the Education and Training Course
Announcements (ETCA) for information on AETC formal courses. ETCA can be accessed at:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil.

8.1 Interactive courseware (ICW) courses are available from (or under development by) 367th
TRSS Hill AFB, Utah

SECTION D - TRAINING COURSE INDEX

9. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for the
Hydraulic Systems Specialty and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in
their career field training programs. For further information on the following courses,
contact the OPR at:

       364 TRS/TRR
       511 9th Ave STE 1
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2338
       DSN 736-6297

https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=-
1390086&command=org




                                                19
10. Air Force In-Resident Courses.

       364 TRS/TTMAS
       511 9th Ave STE 1
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2338
       DSN 736-6297

To view courses in the ETCA use the following Web site: https://etca.randolph.af.mil

COURSE NO.               COURSE TITLE                    LOCATION           USER
J3ABR2A635 0A1C          Aircraft Hydraulic Systems      Sheppard AFB       AF, FMS
                         Apprentice

11.    Career Development Courses
       Air Force Career Development Academy (AFCDA)
       50 South Turner Blvd
       Maxwell AFB, Gunter Annex, AL 36118 http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/

COURSE NO.            COURSE TITLE                                          USER
CDC 2A655             Aircraft Hydraulic Systems Journeyman                 AF
CDC 2AX7X             Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman                       AF

12. Exportable Courses.

Interactive Courseware (ICW) courses are available from or are under development by, 367
TRS/TRSS at Hill AFB, Utah, 362 TRS and 982 MXS/TSU at Sheppard AFB, Texas. For
further information on the following exportable courses, contact the OPRs at:

       367 TRSS                                           362 TRS
       6058 Aspen Ave                                     613 10th Ave
       Hill AFB, UT 84056-5805                            Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2352
       DSN 777-7830/8741                                  DSN 736-5206

      982 MXS/TSU
      912 I Ave Ste 4
      Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2334
      DSN 736-3001

To view 982 MXS courses use the link below. Look under Instructional Technology – Existing
Products.xlsx.
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=-1468774&command.org

To view 362 TRS courses in the ETCA use the following Web site:
https://www.my.af.mil/etcacourses/




                                              20
To view 367 TRSS courses use the Hill AFB web the following web site:
https://367trss.hill.af.mil/index.aspx

13. Training Detachment (TD) Courses.

For further information on the TD courses, contact the OPRs at:

       372 TRS                                           373 TRS
       912 I Ave Suite 3                                 912 I Ave Suite 4
       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2361                       Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-2362
       DSN 736-4801                                      DSN 736-4679

COURSE NO.               COURSE TITLE                                    OPR       USER
J4AMP2A6X5 A01A          B-1B Aircraft Hydraulic Systems                 372 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 A23A          E-4B Aircraft Pneudraulic Systems               373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 A03A          B-52H Aircraft Hydraulic Systems Maintenance    372 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 A04A          C-5 Hydraulic Systems Craftsman                 373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 A17A          HC/MC-130E/P/N Inflight Refueling System        373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 B17A          C-130 Hydraulic Systems(0.Maintenance)          373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 A02A          B-2 Aircraft Hydraulic Systems                  372 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 B18A          KC-135 Aircraft Pneudraulics Repair Craftsman   373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 C18A          RC-135 Aircraft Hydraulic Repair (CRT)          373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 F18B          KC-135 Multipoint Refueling System (MPRS)       373 TRS   AF
                         Hydraulic Craftsman
J4AMP2A6X5 E18A          KC-135 In-Flight Refueling System Repair        373 TRS AF
                         Craftsman
J4AMP2A6X5 F18A          KC-135R/T Hydraulic System Troubleshooting      373 TRS AF
J4AMP2A6X5 G18A          KC-135 Hydraulic Systems Craftsman              373 TRS AF
                         (Transition)
J4AMP2A6X5 C17A          C-130J Hydraulic Systems (O. Maintenance)       373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 A24A          E-8C Hydraulic System                           373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 A07A          C-17 Hydraulic Troubleshooting                  373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 A22A          Aircraft Hydraulic Journeyman (E-3)             373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 B04A          C-5 Hydraulic Systems Enroute                   373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 B07A          C-17 Hydraulic Transition                       373 TRS   AF
J4AMP2A6X5 A31A          KC-10A Hydraulic Troubleshooting Course         373 TRS   AF




                                              21
SECTION E - MAJCOM UNIQUE REQUIREMENTS. There are no mandatory
MAJCOM requirements.

14. MAJCOM Courses. Contact the course OPRs at:

    CAF MCL: https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-TE-AC-42/default.aspx

    MAF MCL: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/AFP40/d/1074111948/Files/a4m/a4mm/a4mmt/hello.html


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE




OFFICIAL                                 JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                         Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support


16 Attachments:
1. Proficiency Code Key (Mandatory)
2. Training Requirements, Fundamentals (Mandatory)
3. Training Requirements, Generic (Optional)
4. Training Requirements, B-1 (Optional)
5. Training Requirements, B-2 (Optional)
6. Training Requirements, B-52 (Optional)
7. Training Requirements, C-5 (Optional)
8. Training Requirements, C-17 (Optional)
9. Training Requirements, C-130 E/H (Optional)
10. Training Requirements, C-130J (Optional)
11. Training Requirements, C-135 (Optional)
12. Training Requirements, E-3 (Optional)
13. Training Requirements, Fighter/Attack (Optional)
14. Training Requirements, KC-10 (Optional)
15. Training Requirements, C-40(Optional)
16. Training Requirements, CDC 2AX7X (Mandatory)




                                                       22
This page intentionally left blank




                23
                                                       PROFICIENCY CODE KEY

This Block Is For Identification Purposes Only
Name Of Trainee
Printed Name (Last, First, Middle Initial)                             Initials (Written)                       SSAN

                                         Printed Name Of Training/Certifying Official And Written Initials
N/I                                                                       N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

N/I                                                                         N/I

                                                    QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                                             Proficiency Code Key
                                 Scale      Definition: The individual
                                 Value
                                   1        IS EXTREMELY LIMITED (Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do
                                            most of the task.)
           Task                    2        IS PARTIALLY PROFICIENT (Can do most parts of the task. Needs only help on hardest parts.)
       Performance                 3        IS COMPETENT (Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.)
          Levels                   4        IS HIGHLY PROFICIENT (Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show
                                            others how to do the task.)
                                   a        KNOWS NOMENCLATURE (Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. )
         *Task                     b        KNOWS PROCEDURES (Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. )
       Knowledge                   c        KNOWS OPERATING PRINCIPLES (Can identify why and when the task must be done and why
                                            each step is needed.)
          Levels                   d        KNOWS ADVANCED THEORY (Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task.)
                                   A        KNOWS FACTS (Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.)
        **Subject                  B        KNOWS PRINCIPLES (Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about
                                            the subject.)
       Knowledge                C           KNOWS ANALYSIS (Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.)
         Levels                 D           KNOWS EVALUATION (Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.)
Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)

** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
subject common to several tasks.

- This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the courses or CDC’s.

/ (3c/b, 2b/b etc.) This mark is used with the scale value is used in course columns to show that limited training is provided at a lower level due to
limitations in resources.

X This mark is used in course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in resources (3c/X).

Note: All tasks elements with proficiency codes are trained during wartime.




                                                                          24                                                          Attachment 1
This page intentionally left blank




                25
                                              FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                         To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                              5     7      Tng         Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                           Start      Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 2
NOTE 1: The tasks and knowledge listed in attachment 2 apply to all personnel in the hydraulic systems specialty.
NOTE 2: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
A2.1.           OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC)
                TR: AFI 10-701, AFPD 10-7
A2.1.1.         Definition of OPSEC                                                                                                                 A            -        -            -
A2.1.2.         Specific OPSEC vulnerabilities                                                                                                      A            -        -            -
A2.2.           AF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
                (AFOSH) PROGRAM
                TR: AFI s 91-203; 91-302; 91-101, 91-104, 21-101,
                32-2001, AFMAN 10-3902, and applicable OSHA
                standards
A2.2.1.         Hazards of the AFSC 2A6X5                                                                                                           A           B         -            -
A2.2.2.         Initiate AFTO Form 55 (or equivalent)                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A2.2.3.         AFOSH standards for AFSC 2A6X5                                                                                                      A           B         -            -
A2.2.4.         Nuclear safety/nuclear surety                                                                                                       A           B         -            -
A2.2.5.         Maintain safe work area                                                                                                            2b           b         -            -
A2.2.6.         Confined spaces                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A2.2.7.         Use safety practices
                TR: AFIs 21-101, 32-2001; TOs 32-1-2, 32-1-101;
                AFI 91-203, and Applicable AFOSH standards
A2.2.7.1.       In shop                                                                                                                            2b           b         -            -
A2.2.7.2.       On flightline                                                                                                                      2b           b         -            -
A2.2.7.3.       Tools/equipment                                                                                                                    2b           b         -            -
A2.2.7.4.       Portable fire extinguishers                                                                                                         b            -        -            -
A2.2.7.5.       Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)                                                                                                  -           a        -            -
A2.2.7.6.       Mishap Prevention Tags                                                                                                               -           a        -            -
A2.2.8.         Select/use restraint harness                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A2.2.9.         Lockout/tagout programs                                                                                                              -          B         -            -
A2.2.10         Foreign object damage (FOD) prevention program                                                                                       -          A         -            -
A2.2.11.        Dropped object prevention program (DOPP)                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A2.3.           HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND WASTE
                HANDLING ACCORDING TO ENVIRONMENTAL
                STANDARDS
                TR: EPA State Regulations; AFI 90-821,
                Applicable Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)
A2.3.1.         Types of hazardous materials/fluids                                                                                                 A           B         -            -
A2.3.2.         Handling procedures                                                                                                                 A           B         -            -
A2.3.3.         Storage and labeling                                                                                                                A           A         -            -
A2.3.4.         Proper disposal                                                                                                                     A           B         -            -
A2.3.5.         Section fluid spill response procedures                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A2.3.6.         Personnel contamination response                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A2.4.           MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
                TR: AFI 21-103, AFI 21-101 and applicable MAJCOM
                directives

                                                                                  26
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 2
                                          FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                          Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                              A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A2.4.1.        Maintenance group organizational structure                                                                                     A           B         -            -
A2.4.2.        Basic functions/structure within the maintenance complex                                                                       A           B         -            -
A2.4.3.        Principles of Maintenance Resource Management (MRM)                                                                            A            -        -            -
A2.4.4.        Principles of Risk Management (RM)                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A2.4.5.        Familiar with federal/local Precious Metal Program                                                                              -           -        -            -
A2.5.          MAINTENANCE INSPECTIONS
               TR: AFI 21-101, TO 00-20 series
A2.5.1.        Inspection concepts                                                                                                            A           B         -            -
A2.5.2.        Perform acceptance/transfer inspection on aircraft                                                                              -           -        -            -
A2.5.3.        Perform isochronal/phase/periodic inspections                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A2.5.4.        Perform other scheduled maintenance inspections (e.g.
               Home Station Check (HSC), refurb, HPO, Letter Checks,                                                                           -           -        -            -
               etc.)
A2.6.          MAINTENANCE DATA COLLECTION
               TR: TO 00-20 series; AFCSMs 21-556, 561,563, 579
A2.6.1.        Principles                                                                                                                     B           B         -            -
A2.6.2.        Data integrity                                                                                                                 B            -        -            -
A2.6.3.        Use maintenance data collection forms                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A2.6.4.        Use integrated maintenance data system (IMDS)              *                                                                  2b            -        -            -
A2.6.5.        GO81 (CAMS for mobility)
               TR: AMCI 21-101, AMC 1
A2.6.5.1.      Use GO81                                                   *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A2.6.5.2.      Complete GO81 familiarization and maintenance data         *
                                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
               Collection Training
A2.6.6.        Forms documentation
               TR: TO 00-20 series
A2.6.6.1.      Aircraft records/781 series forms
A2.6.6.1.1.    Use AFTO form 781A                                         *                                                                  2b           b         -            -
A2.6.6.1.2.    Use AFTO form 781H                                         *                                                                  2b           b         -            -
A2.6.6.1.3.    Use AFTO form 781K                                         *                                                                  2b           b         -            -
A2.6.6.1.4.    Use AFTO form 95                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A2.6.6.1.5.    Document in-process inspection (IPI) in 781A                     *                                                             b            -        -            -
A2.6.6.2.      Accomplish support equipment maintenance records
                                                                                                                                             2b           b         -            -
               AFTO Form 244
A2.7.          TRAINING
               TR: AFI 36-2201
A2.7.1.        Maintenance training principles                                                                                                A           B         -            -
A2.7.2.        Evaluate personnel to determine need for training                                                                               -           -        -            -
A2.7.3.        Plan and supervise OJT                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A2.7.4.        Monitor effectiveness of training
A2.7.4.1.      Upgrade                                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A2.7.4.2.      Qualification training progress                                                                                                 -           -        -            -


                                                                               27
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 2
                                            FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                          Tasks                                                                         To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                        Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                              A     B          A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                           5       7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                          Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A2.7.5.        Maintain training records                                       *                                                                  -           -        -            -
A2.8.          TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
               TR: TO 00-5-1, TO 00-XX series, AFI 21-101;
               TO 00-5-15, applicable TCTOs
A2.8.1.        Fundamentals of the technical order (TO) system                                                                                   B           B         -            -
A2.8.2.        Use technical manuals                                      *                                                                     2b            -        -            -
A2.8.3.        Use methods and procedures TOs                             *                                                                     2b            -        -            -
A2.8.4.        Use abbreviated technical orders                           *                                                                     2b            -        -            -
A2.8.5.        Comply with time compliance TOs                                  *                                                                b            -        -            -
A2.8.6.        Initiate technical order improvement report/AFTO form 22         *                                                                 a          b         -            -
A2.8.7.        Use electronic technical manuals                           *                                                                     2b            -        -            -
A2.9.          AF SUPPLY
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFM 23-111, AFCSM 21-556,
               TO 00-25-195, AFMAN 23-110, TO 00-35D-54,
               TO 00-20 series
A2.9.1.        Deficiency reporting system
                                                                                                                                                 A           B         -            -
               (Joint Deficiency Reporting System - JDRS)
A2.9.2.        Initiate Deficiency Report                                       *                                                                 -           -        -            -
A2.9.3.        Repair cycle parts routing/tracking                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A2.9.4.        Processing and controlling material
A2.9.4.1.      Use AFTO form 350 Tags                                     *                                                                     2b           b         -            -
A2.9.4.2.      Use condition tags                                         *                                                                     2b            a        -            -
A2.9.4.3.      Process repairable assets due-in from maintenance (DIFM)         *                                                                 -           -        -            -
A2.9.4.4.      Determine asset repairability (SMR) TO 00-25-19                  *                                                                 -          b         -            -
A2.9.4.5.      Property accountability,
                                                                                                                                                 A           B         -            -
               (Cash collection voucher, report of survey, etc.)
A2.9.5.        Materiel management fundamentals                                                                                                   -          A         -            -
A2.9.6.        Standard base supply system (SBSS)                                                                                                A           B         -            -

A2.9.7.        Fed log/webFLIS                                                                                                                    -          A         -            -
A2.9.8.        Depot level repairable                                                                                                             -          B         -            -
A2.9.9.        Maintain supply records (D04, D23, D19, D18, M04,Q04)            *                                                                 -           -        -            -
A2.9.10.       Equipment management                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A2.9.11.       Benchstock/shopstock                                                                                                               -          B         -            -
A2.10.         HYDRAULIC MAINTENANCE PRINCIPLES
               TR: AFI 21-101
A2.10.1.       Composite tool kit (CTK) program                                                                                                  A           B         -            -
A2.10.2.       Use maintenance materials
               TR: TOs 32-1-2, 32-1-101, 32B14-3-1-101,
               00-25-223, 33 Series TOs
A2.10.2.1.     Use tools
A2.10.2.1.1.   Handtools                                                                                                                        2b           b         -            -
A2.10.2.1.2.   Mechanical measuring devices                                                                                                     2b           b         -            -


                                                                               28
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 2
                                          FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                     Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                         A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                      5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                  Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A2.10.2.1.3.   Torque Wrenches                                       *                                                                  2b           b         -            -
A2.10.2.1.4.   Electronic measuring devices                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A2.10.2.1.5.   Multimeters                                           *                                                                  2b           b         -            -
A2.10.2.2.     Automated Tool Accountability System(s)                                                                                   A           B
A2.10.3.       Aircraft hardware / consumables
               TR TOs 00-25-223, 1-1A-8, 1-1A-14, 44H1-1-13, TO
               42B2-1-3, TO 1-1-691
A2.10.3.1.     Use common hardware                                   *                                                                  2b           b         -            -
A2.10.3.2.     Use safetying hardware                                *                                                                  2b           b         -            -
A2.10.3.3.     Use sealing devices                                                                                                      2b           b         -            -
A2.10.3.4.     Fluids, Lubricants, Sealants                                                                                              B           B         -            -
A2.10.3.5.     Cleaning agents                                                                                                            -          B         -            -
A2.10.4.       Hose assemblies
               TR: TO 42E1-1-1, 00-25-223, and series; Applicable
               aircraft TOs
A2.10.4.1.     Component identification/serviceability                                                                                   A           A         -            -
A2.10.4.2.     Determine serviceability                              *                                                                    -          b         -            -
A2.10.4.3.     Remove/Install                                                                                                             -           -        -            -

A2.10.4.4.     Fabricate
A2.10.4.4.1.   Machine                                                                                                                   b           b         -            -
A2.10.4.4.2.   Hand                                                  *                                                                   b           b         -            -
A2.10.4.5.     Test                                                  *                                                                  1b            -        -            -
A2.10.5.       Tubing assemblies
               TR: TO 00-25-223, and applicable aircraft TOs
A2.10.5.1.     Component Identification                                                                                                   -          B         -            -
A2.10.5.2      Determine serviceability                              *                                                                    -          b         -            -
A2.10.5.3.     Perform Rynglok Procedures                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A2.10.5.4.     Perform Permaswage Procedures                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A2.10.5.5.     Test                                                  *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A2.10.5.6.     Remove/install                                                                                                           2b            -        -            -
A2.10.6.       AN/MS threaded unions/fittings/
               TR: TO 00-25-223, 42E1-1-1, applicable aircraft TOs
A2.10.6.1.     Remove/reseal/install                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A2.11.         AIRCRAFT FAMILIARIZATION
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A2.11.1.       Principles of flight                                                                                                      B           B         -            -
A2.11.2.       Aircraft designation system                                                                                               B            -        -            -
A2.11.3.       Major aircraft systems                                                                                                    B            -        -            -
A2.11.4.       Location of structural components                                                                                         B            -        -            -
A2.11.5.       Corrosion Control                                                                                                         A           B         -            -




                                                                          29
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 2
                                           FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                               Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                          Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                   A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                            Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A2.12.         ELECTRICAL/ ELECTRONIC FUNDAMENTALS
               APPLICABLE TO AFSC 2A6X5
               TR: TO 31 series; TO 1-1A-14,
               and applicable aircraft TOs
A2.12.1.       DC fundamentals                                                                                                     A           B         -            -
A2.12.2.       AC fundamentals                                                                                                     A           B         -            -
A2.12.3.       Operational fundamentals of basic circuits                                                                          A           B         -            -
A2.12.4.       Use schematics and diagrams                           *                                                            1b           b         -            -
A2.12.5.       Troubleshoot circuits                                                                                              1b           b         -            -
A2.12.6.       Aircraft guarded switches                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A2.13.         HYDRAULIC FUNDAMENTALS
               TR: TO 00-25-223, and applicable aircraft TOs
A2.13.1.       Principles of hydraulics/pneumatics                                                                                 B           B         -            -
A2.13.2.       Use schematics and diagrams                     *                                                                  1b           b         -            -
A2.13.3.       Logical Troubleshooting Method                                                                                      A           A         -            -
A2.14.         SHOP AND AEROSPACE GROUND EQUIPMENT
               TR: Applicable equipment TOs
A2.14.1.       Shop equipment
A2.14.1.1.     Hose cutoff machine
A2.14.1.1.1.   Operate                                                                                                              b           b        -            -
A2.14.1.1.2.   Maintain                                                                                                             -           b        -            -
A2.14.1.2.     Hose assembly machine
A2.14.1.2.1.   Operate                                                                                                              b           b        -            -
A2.14.1.2.2.   Maintain                                                                                                             -           b        -            -
A2.14.1.3.     Hydraulic component test stand
A2.14.1.3.1.   Operate                                                                                                             2b           b        -            -
A2.14.1.3.2.   Autofrettage safety procedures                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.3.3.   Maintain                                                                                                             -           b        -            -
A2.14.1.3.4.   Connect to components                                                                                               2b           -        -            -
A2.14.1.3.5.   Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.3.6.   Repair                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.4.     Pneumatic test stand
A2.14.1.4.1.   Operate                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.4.2.   Maintain                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.4.3.   Connect to components                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.4.4.   Troubleshoot                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.4.5.   Repair                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.5.     Component oven
A2.14.1.5.1.   Operate                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.5.2.   Maintain                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.5.3.   Inspect                                                                                                              -           -        -            -


                                                                    30
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 2
                                           FUNDAMENTAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                            Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                       Information Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                             3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                             5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                         Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A2.14.1.5.4.   Troubleshoot                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.6.     Component cleaning tank
A2.14.1.6.1.   Operate                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.6.2.   Maintain                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.6.3.   Inspect                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.6.4.   Troubleshoot                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.7.     Component cleaning pressure washer
A2.14.1.7.1.   Operate                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.7.2.   Maintain                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.7.3.   Inspect                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.7.4.   Troubleshoot                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.8.     Landing gear test fixture
A2.14.1.8.1.   Operate                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.8.2.   Maintain                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.8.3.   Inspect                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A2.14.1.8.4.   Troubleshoot                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A2.14.2.       Operate ground support equipment
A2.14.2.1.     Portable hydraulic test stands               *                                                                   2b           b        -            -
A2.14.2.2.     External power units                                                                                              b           b        -            -
A2.14.2.3.     Nitrogen servicing carts                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A2.14.2.4.     Air compressor units                                                                                              -           b        -            -
A2.14.2.5.     Hydraulic servicing carts                                                                                        2b           -        -            -
A2.14.2.6.     Maintenance stands                           *                                                                    -           b        -            -
A2.14.2.7.     Air conditioner                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A2.14.2.8.     Hydromite                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A2.14.2.9.     Ground heater                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A2.14.2.10.    Light carts                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A2.14.2.11.    Bleed air cart                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A2.14.2.12.    Self-generating nitrogen cart                                                                                   2b           b         -            -
A2.14.2.13.    Manlift                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A2.14.2.14.    Universal maintenance stand (scissor lift)                                                                        -           -        -            -
A2.14.2.15.    Portable hydraulic fluid purifier                                                                                 -           -        -            -




                                                                 31
                                                                                                                                             Attachment 2
                                                 GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                         To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                              5     7      Tng         Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                           Start      Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 3 (Generic Training Requirements)
NOTE 1: The tasks and knowledge listed in attachment 2 apply to all personnel in the hydraulic systems specialty.
NOTE 2: The tasks and knowledge listed in attachment 3 will be used in conjunction with attachment 2 by personnel assigned to an MDS not covered by a separate
attachment.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

A3.1.           COMMON FLIGHTLINE MAINTENANCE
                PRACTICES
                TR: 00-25-172, applicable abbreviated equipment and
                aircraft TOs
A3.1.1.         Perform aircraft safe for maintenance                         *                                                                    1b            -        -            -
A3.1.2.         Ground aircraft or equipment                                  *                                                                    1b            -        -            -
A3.1.3.         Tow team member                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A3.1.4.         Install and remove ground safety devices                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A3.1.5.         Refuel/defuel team member                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A3.1.6.         Open and close engine cowling                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A3.1.7.         Remove/install aircraft access panels                         *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A3.1.8.         Use interphone                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.1.9.         Marshall aircraft                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A3.1.10.        Apply/disconnect external hydraulic power                     *                                                                    2b            -        -            -
A3.1.11.        Apply/disconnect external electrical power                    *                                                                    2b            -        -            -
A3.1.12.        Jack aircraft
A3.1.12.1.      Safety                                                                                                                              b           b         -            -
A3.1.12.2.      Manual                                                                                                                              b            -        -            -
A3.1.12.3.      Manifold                                                                                                                             -          b         -            -
A3.1.12.4.      Jack team member                                                                                                                    b           b         -            -
A3.2.           HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
                TR: Aircraft TOs
A3.2.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                            B           B         -            -
A3.2.2.         Perform operational check                                     *                                                                    2b           b         -            -
A3.2.3.         Inspect system components                                           *                                                              2b            -        -            -
A3.2.4.         Troubleshoot malfunctions                                           *                                                              1b           b         -            -
A3.2.5.         Drain hydraulic system                                                                                                               a          b         -            -
A3.2.6.         Flush hydraulic system                                                                                                               a          b         -            -
A3.2.7.         Service accumulator                                                                                                                2b           b         -            -
A3.2.8.         Service reservoir                                                                                                                  1b           b         -            -
A3.2.9.         Bleed hydraulic system                                                                                                               -          b         -            -
A3.2.10.        Remove/install components
A3.2.10.1.      Pumps                                                                                                                              2b            -        -            -
A3.2.10.2.      Motors                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A3.2.10.3.      Valves                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A3.2.10.4.      Filters                                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A3.2.10.5.      Reservoirs                                                                                                                         2b            -        -            -

                                                                                  32
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 3
                                               GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                               Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                          Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                   A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                            Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A3.2.10.6.     Manifolds                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A3.2.10.7.     Accumulators                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.2.10.8.     Indicating devices                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A3.2.11.       Repair/overhaul components
A3.2.11.1.     Valves                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A3.2.11.2.     Filter assemblies                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A3.2.11.3.     Reservoirs                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A3.2.11.4.     Manifolds                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A3.2.11.5.     Accumulators                                                                                                       2b           b         -            -
A3.2.12.       Bench check components
A3.2.12.1.     Valves                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A3.2.12.2.     Filter assemblies                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A3.2.12.3.     Reservoirs                                                                                                           -          b         -            -
A3.2.12.4.     Manifolds                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A3.2.12.5.     Accumulators                                                                                                        b            -        -            -
A3.2.12.6.     Indicating devices                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A3.2.13.       Perform adjustments                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A3.3.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A3.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                            B           B         -            -
A3.3.2.        Perform operational check of normal system                                                                         1b            -        -            -
A3.3.3.        Perform operational check of emergency system                                                                      1b            -        -            -
A3.3.4.        Inspect system components                             *                                                            2b            -        -            -
A3.3.5.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                             *                                                            1b           b         -            -
A3.3.6.        Service Struts                                                                                                     1b           b         -            -
A3.3.7.        Bleed landing gear system                                                                                            -          b         -            -
A3.3.8.        Perform adjustments                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A3.3.9.        Remove/install components
A3.3.9.1.      Actuators                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A3.3.9.2.      Motors                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A3.3.9.3.      Manifolds                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A3.3.9.4.      Valves                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A3.3.9.5.      Swivels                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A3.3.10.       Repair/overhaul components
A3.3.10.1.     Actuators                                                                                                          2b            -        -            -
A3.3.10.2.     Manifolds                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A3.3.10.3.     Valves                                                                                                               -          b         -            -
A3.3.10.4.     Swivels                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A3.3.10.5.     Main Strut                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A3.3.10.6.     Nose Strut                                                                                                           -           -        -            -

                                                                    33
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 3
                                               GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               A    B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A3.3.11.       Bench check components
A3.3.11.1.     Actuators                                                                                                     2b            -        -            -
A3.3.11.2.     Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.3.11.3.     Valves                                                                                                          -          b         -            -
A3.3.11.4.     Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.3.11.5.     Main Strut                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A3.3.11.6.     Nose Strut                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A3.4.          NOSE WHEEL STEERING SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A3.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                       B           B         -            -
A3.4.2.        Perform operational check                   *                                                                 1b            -        -            -
A3.4.3.        Inspect system components                        *                                                            2b            -        -            -
A3.4.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                        *                                                            1b            -        -            -
A3.4.5.        Bleed system                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A3.4.6.        Perform adjustments                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A3.4.7.        Remove/Install components
A3.4.7.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.4.7.2.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.4.7.3.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.4.7.4.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.4.8.        Repair/overhaul components
A3.4.8.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.4.8.2.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.4.8.3.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.4.8.4.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.4.9.        Bench check components
A3.4.9.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.4.9.2.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.4.9.3.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.4.9.4.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.5.          WHEEL BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A3.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                       B           B         -            -
A3.5.2.        Perform operational check                   *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A3.5.3.        Inspect system components                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A3.5.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                        *                                                            1b           b         -            -
A3.5.5.        Bleed brake system                                                                                              -          b         -            -
A3.5.6.        Perform adjustments                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A3.5.7.        Remove/install components
A3.5.7.1.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -

                                                               34
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 3
                                               GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               A    B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A3.5.7.2.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.5.7.3.      Accumulators                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A3.5.7.4.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.5.7.5.      Brake Assemblies                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A3.5.8.        Repair/overhaul components
A3.5.8.1.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.5.8.2.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.5.8.3.      Accumulators                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A3.5.8.4.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.5.8.5.      Brake assemblies                                                                                              2b           b         -            -
A3.5.9.        Bench check components
A3.5.9.1.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.5.9.2.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.5.9.3.      Accumulators                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A3.5.9.4.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.5.9.5.      Brake assemblies                                                                                              1b            -        -            -
A3.6.          FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A3.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                       B           B         -            -
A3.6.2.        Perform operational check                   *                                                                 1b            -        -            -
A3.6.3.        Inspect system components                        *                                                            2b            -        -            -
A3.6.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                        *                                                            2b           b         -            -
A3.6.5.        Bleed flight control system                                                                                     -          b         -            -
A3.6.6.        Perform adjustments                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A3.6.7.        Remove/install components
A3.6.7.1.      Actuators                                                                                                     2b            -        -            -
A3.6.7.2.      Motors                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.6.7.3.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.6.7.4.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.6.7.5.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.6.8.        Repair/overhaul components
A3.6.8.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.6.8.2.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.6.8.3.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.6.8.4.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.6.9.        Bench check components
A3.6.9.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.6.9.2.      Motors                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.6.9.3.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.6.9.4.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -

                                                               35
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 3
                                               GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               A    B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A3.6.9.5.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.7.          WEAPONS/CARGO DOOR SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A3.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                       A           B         -            -
A3.7.2.        Perform operational check                   *                                                                 1b            -        -            -
A3.7.3.        Inspect system components                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A3.7.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                        *                                                              -          b         -            -
A3.7.5.        Bleed system                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A3.7.6.        Perform adjustments                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A3.7.7.        Remove/install components
A3.7.7.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.7.7.2.      Motors                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.7.7.3.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.7.7.4.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.7.7.5.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.7.7.6.      Pumps                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A3.7.8.        Repair/overhaul components
A3.7.8.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.7.8.2.      Motors                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.7.8.3.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.7.8.4.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.7.8.5.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.7.8.6.      Pumps                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A3.7.9.        Bench check components
A3.7.9.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.7.9.2.      Motors                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.7.9.3.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.7.9.4.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.7.9.5.      Swivels                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A3.7.9.6.      Pumps                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A3.8.          AIR REFUELING RECEIVER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A3.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                       A           B         -            -
A3.8.2.        Perform operational check                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.8.3.        Inspect system components                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.8.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.8.5.        Bleed system                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A3.8.6.        Rig/adjust ARR system                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A3.8.7.        Remove/install components
A3.8.7.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -

                                                               36
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 3
                                               GENERIC TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               A    B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A3.8.7.2.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.8.7.3.      Manifolds                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.8.8.        Repair/overhaul components
A3.8.8.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.8.8.2.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.8.9.        Bench check components
A3.8.9.1.      Actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A3.8.9.2.      Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A3.9.          INFLIGHT REFUELING SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A3.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                       A           B         -            -
A3.9.2.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                                                                       -           b        -            -




                                                               37
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 3
                                                       B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS


                                                                             2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                         To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A     B         A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                               5    7        Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                             Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 4 ( B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 4 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 4 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by B-1 personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

A4.1.           GROUND HANDLING
                TR: 1B-1B-2-05, 1B-1B-2-05JG-10-1, Applicable aircraft
                TOs
A4.1.1.         Stairladder extension and retraction                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.1.2.         Apply/Disconnect external electrical power                    *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.1.3.         Aircraft safe for maintenance                                 *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.1.4.         Apply/Disconnect External Hydraulic power                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.1.5.         Aircraft safe for simulated airborne                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.1.6.         Main landing gear door open and close                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.1.7.         Weapons bay door open and close                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.1.8.         Aircraft fuselage jack observer                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.1.9.         APU ground observer                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.1.10.        APU operation                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.1.11.        Safing devices                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A4.2.           HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
                TR: 1B-1B-2-29, Applicable aircraft TOs
A4.2.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.2.2.         Perform operational check                                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.2.3.         Flush system                                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.2.4.         Inspect                                                             *                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.2.5.         Troubleshoot                                                        *                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.2.6.         Service components
A4.2.6.1.       Hydraulic fluid sampling                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.2.6.2.       Reservoir                                                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.2.6.3.       Auxiliary power unit                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.2.6.4.       Integrated drive gearbox (IDG)                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A4.2.6.5.       Accessory drive gearbox                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.2.6.6.       Gaseous nitrogen bottle                                                                                                              -           -        -            -

A4.2.7.         Depressurize system
A4.2.7.1.       Main system                                                   *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.2.8.         Drain system
A4.2.8.1.       Hydraulic reservoir                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.         Remove/install components
A4.2.9.1.       Filter elements                                               *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.2.       Engine driven pumps                                           *                                                                      -           -        -            -


                                                                                   38                                                                            Attachment 4
                                                         B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                  Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                             Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                       A    B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                   3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                   5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                               Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A4.2.9.3.      Filter housing                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.4.      Relief valve                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.5.      Return filter housing                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.6.      Reservoir #1 and #4                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.7.      Hydraulic reservoir relief valve                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.8.      Gaseous nitrogen relief manifold and filter                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.9.      Gaseous nitrogen reservoir relief valve                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.10.     Gaseous nitrogen pressure reduction valve                                                                               -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.11.     Gaseous nitrogen reservoir                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.12.     Pressure coupling                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.13.     Return coupling                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.14.     Reservoir dump, vent, and sample valve                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.15.     Thermal bypass valve                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.16.     Pressure transducers                                *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.17.     Fluid quantity sensors                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.18.     Reservoir #2 and #3                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.19.     Rosan fittings                                      *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.2.9.20.     Return filter element                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.2.10.       Repair/overhaul components
A4.2.10.1.     Gaseous nitrogen relief manifold/filter                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.2.10.2.     Gaseous nitrogen pressure reduction valve                                                                               -           -        -            -
A4.2.10.3.     Reservoir relief valve
A4.2.10.3.1.   Self displacing accumulator                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.2.10.3.2.   Position accumulator                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.2.11.       Bench check components
A4.2.11.1.     Gaseous nitrogen relief manifold/filter                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.2.11.2.     Gaseous nitrogen pressure reduction valve                                                                               -           -        -            -
A4.2.11.3.     Reservoir relief valve                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.2.11.4.     Self displacing accumulator                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.2.11.5.     Position accumulator                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.3.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-1B-2-32, Applicable aircraft TOs
A4.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.3.2.        Perform operational check
A4.3.2.1.      Normal extension and retraction (position A)             *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.3.2.2.      Normal extension and retraction (position B)        *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.3.2.3.      Emergency extension                                 *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.3.2.4.      MLG door forces                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.        Remove/install components
A4.3.3.1.      MLG strut uplock cylinder                                                                                               -           -        -            -

                                                                       39                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                   B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                             Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                        Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                              3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                              5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                          Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A4.3.3.2.      MLG strut cylinder                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.3.      MLG downlock cylinder                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.4.      MLG door cylinder                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.5.      MLG door lock cylinder                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.6.      MLG door selector and emergency dump valve                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.7.      MLG strut selector and emergency dump valve                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.8.      MLG door anti-blow back valve                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.9.      MLG emergency extend cylinder                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.10.     MLG emergency extend accumulator                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.11.     NLG strut cylinder                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.12.     NLG strut uplock cylinder                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.13.     NLG strut downlock cylinder                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.14.     NLG door cylinder                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.15.     NLG door lock cylinder                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.16.     NLG door selector and emergency dump valve                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.17.     NLG strut selector and emergency dump valve                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.18.     NLG emergency extend accumulator                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.19.     NLG slave door cylinder                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.20.     NLG priority valve                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.21.     MLG/NLG accumulator dump and relief valve                                                                          -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.22.     Swivels                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.23.     Emergency pressure selector valve                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.24.     MLG strut cylinder                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.3.3.25.     Bleed system                                  *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.        Repair/overhaul components
A4.3.4.1.      MLG emergency extend accumulator                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.2.      NLG emergency extend accumulator                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.3.      MLG door lock cylinder                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.4.      MLG door cylinder                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.5.      MLG positioner                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.6.      MLG strut cylinder                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.7.      MLG emergency extend cylinder                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.8.      MLG strut uplock cylinder                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.9.      MLG downlock cylinder                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.10.     NLG strut cylinder                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.11.     NLG strut downlock cylinder                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.12.     NLG strut uplock assembly                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.13.     NLG door lock cylinder                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.14.     NLG door cylinder                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.3.4.15.     Swivels                                                                                                            -           -        -            -

                                                                  40                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                  B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                 5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                             Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A4.3.5.        Bench check components
A4.3.5.1.      MLG emergency extend accumulator                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.2.      NLG emergency extend accumulator                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.3.      MLG door lock cylinder                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.4.      MLG door cylinder                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.5.      MLG strut cylinder                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.6.      MLG emergency extend cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.7.      MLG strut uplock cylinder                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.8.      MLG downlock cylinder                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.9.      NLG strut cylinder                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.10.     NLG strut downlock cylinder                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.11.     NLG strut uplock assembly                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.12.     NLG emergency door cylinder                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.13.     NLG door lock cylinder                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.14.     NLG door cylinder                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.3.5.15.     Swivels                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A4.4.          NOSE WHEEL STEERING SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-1B-2-32JG-50-1, Applicable aircraft TOs
A4.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.4.2.        Inspect System                                         *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.4.3.        Troubleshoot                                           *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.4.4.        Perform operational check
A4.4.4.1.      Nose wheel steering                              *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.4.5.        Remove/Install components                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.4.5.1.      Power drive unit                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.4.5.2.      Follow up transducer                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.4.5.3.      Fluid manifold                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.4.5.4.      Motor                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.4.5.5.      Steering swivel assembly                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.4.5.6.      E/H valve                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.4.5.7.      Pressure switch                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A4.4.5.8.      Filter                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.4.6.        Adjust/align components
A4.4.6.1.      Power drive unit                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.4.7.        Repair/overhaul components
A4.4.7.1.      Steering swivel assembly                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.4.8.        Bench check components
A4.4.8.1.      Steering swivel assembly                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.5.          WHEEL BRAKE SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-1B-2-32JG-40, Applicable TOs

                                                                     41                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                  B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                           Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                A    B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                            3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                            5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                        Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A4.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.5.2.        Inspect System                                    *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.5.3.        Troubleshoot                                      *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.5.4.        Perform operational check                    *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.5.5.        Remove/install components
A4.5.5.1.      Brake pressure metering valve                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.5.5.2.      Wheel spin down valve                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A4.5.5.3.      Brake return filter element                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.5.5.4.      Anti-skid control manifold                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A4.5.5.5.      Brake pressure manifold                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A4.5.5.6.      Emergency brake selector valve                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.5.5.7.      Parking brake selector valve                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.5.5.8.      Parking brake locking solenoid                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.5.5.9.      Brake swivels                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.5.5.10.     Bleed system                                 *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.5.6.        Repair/Overhaul components
A4.5.6.1.      Brakes                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A4.5.6.2.      Dual passage swivel assembly                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.5.6.3.      Brake swivels                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.5.7.        Bench check components
A4.5.7.1.      Brakes                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A4.5.7.2.      Brake swivels                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.6.          FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-1B-2-27, Applicable aircraft TOs
A4.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.6.2.        Inspect System                                    *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.6.3.        Troubleshoot                                      *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.6.4.        Perform operational check
A4.6.4.1.      Wing sweep gear subassembly                       *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.        Remove/Install components
A4.6.5.1.      Roll master servo cylinder                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.2.      Spoiler panel servo cylinder                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.3.      Spoiler ganged blocking valve                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.4.      Fwd rudder power drive unit                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.5.      Aft rudder power drive unit                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.6.      Pitch master servo cylinder                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.7.      Upper stabilizer actuator                         *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.8.      Lower stabilizer actuator                         *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.9.      Roll scas servo cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.10.     Yaw scas servo cylinder                                                                                          -           -        -            -

                                                                42                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                     B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                              Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                         Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                   A    B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                               3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                               5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                           Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A4.6.5.11.     Pitch scas servo cylinder                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.12.     Lower rudder servo cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.13.     Over wing fairing ratchet actuator                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.14.     Over wing fairing shutoff module                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.15.     Over wing fairing actuator assembly                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.16.     Wing sweep gear subassembly                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.17.     Alternate wing sweep actuator                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.18.     Flap/Slat pressure filter manifold                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.19.     Flap/Slat power drive unit (PDU)                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.20.     Flap asymmetry brake sensor                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.21.     Slat asymmetry brake sensor                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.22.     Flap/Slat pressure filter element                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.6.5.23.     Safing devices                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.        Adjust/align components
A4.6.6.1.      Spoiler panel servo cylinder                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.2.      Fwd rudder power drive unit                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.3.      Aft rudder power drive unit                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.4.      Upper stabilizer actuator                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.5.      Lower stabilizer actuator                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.6.      Roll scas servo cylinder                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.7.      Yaw scas servo cylinder                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.8.      Pitch scas servo cylinder                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.9.      Lower rudder servo cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.10.     Over wing fairing ratchet actuator                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.6.6.11.     Wing sweep gear subassembly                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.6.7.        Repair/overhaul components
A4.6.7.1.      GSA bevel gear housing                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.6.7.2.      Over wing fairing ratchet actuator                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.6.8.        Bench check components
A4.6.8.1.      Over wing fairing ratchet actuator                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.7.          AUTO FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-1B-2-22, Applicable aircraft TOs
A4.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A4.7.2.        Inspect System                                       *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.7.3.        Troubleshoot                                         *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.7.4.        Remove/install components
A4.7.4.1.      SMCS shutoff valve                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.7.4.2.      LT and RT fwd SMCS servo cylinder                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.7.4.3.      LT and RT aft SMCS servo cylinder                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.7.5.        Adjust/Align components

                                                                   43                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                     B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                               Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                          Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                   A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                            Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A4.7.5.1.      LT and RT fwd SMCS servo cylinder                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.7.5.2.      LT and RT aft SMCS servo cylinder                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.8.          EMERGENCY GENERATOR SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-1B-2-24, Applicable aircraft TOs
A4.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.8.2.        Inspect System                                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.8.3.        Troubleshoot                                          *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.8.4.        Perform operational check
A4.8.4.1.      Emergency AC generator system                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.8.5.        Remove / install components
A4.8.5.1.      Emergency AC generator                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A4.8.5.2.      Emergency AC generator check valve                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.9.          WEAPONS DOOR SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-1B-2-94, Applicable aircraft TOs
A4.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.9.2.        Inspect System                                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.9.3.        Remove/install components
A4.9.3.1.      Weapons bay spoiler cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.9.3.2.      Weapons bay spoiler cylinder control valve      *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.9.3.3.      Weapons bay door power drive unit               *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.9.3.4.      Aft weapons bay spoiler 1 / 2 position module                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.9.3.5.      Rotary launcher drive                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.9.3.6.      Rotary launcher control valve                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.9.3.7.      Rotary launcher control valve motor                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A4.9.4.        Repair/overhaul components
A4.9.4.1.      Weapons bay spoiler cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.9.5.        Bench check components
A4.9.5.1.      Weapons bay spoiler cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.10.         AUXILIARY POWER UNIT SYSTEMS (APU)
               TR: 1B-1B-2-49, Applicable aircraft TOs
A4.10.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.10.2.       Inspect System                                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.10.3.       Troubleshoot                                          *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.10.4.       Service components
A4.10.4.1.     Start accumulator                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.10.5.       Remove/install components
A4.10.5.1.     Start accumulator                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A4.10.5.2.     Start motor                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A4.10.5.3.     Start module                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.10.5.4.     Start module check valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -


                                                                    44                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                  B-1 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                           Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                A    B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                            3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                            5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                        Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A4.10.5.5.     Start module pressure switch                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.10.5.6.     Electric build-up motor                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A4.10.6.       Repair/overhaul components
A4.10.6.1.     Start accumulator                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.10.7.       Bench check components
A4.10.7.1.     Start accumulator                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.11.         FUEL COOLING SCOOP SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-1B-2-21, Applicable aircraft TOs
A4.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.11.2.       Inspect System                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.11.3.       Troubleshoot                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.11.4.       Perform operational check                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.11.5.       Remove/install components
A4.11.5.1.     Selector valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.11.5.2.     Blocking valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.11.5.3.     Actuator                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.12.         AERIAL REFUELING SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-1B-2-28, Applicable aircraft TOs
A4.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.12.2.       Inspect System                                    *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.12.3.       Troubleshoot                                      *                                                              -           -        -            -
A4.12.4.       Perform operational check                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.       Remove/install components
A4.12.5.1.     UARRSI accumulator                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.2.     UARRSI dump and relief valve                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.3.     UARRSI pressure reducing valve                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.4.     Universal A/R receptacle                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.5.     A/R line coupling                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.6.     A/R line pressure switch                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.7.     EMP device                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.8.     A/R signal amplifier                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.9.     Reverse A/R refuel valve                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.10.    Teflon and rubber seals                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.11.    Receptacle sleeve                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A4.12.5.12.    Induction coil                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A4.12.6.       Repair/overhaul components
A4.12.6.1.     UARRSI accumulator                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A4.12.7.       Bench check components
A4.12.7.1.     UARRSI accumulator                                                                                               -           -        -            -



                                                                45                                                                          Attachment 4
                                                          B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                         To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A     B         A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                               5    7        Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                             Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 5 (B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 5 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 5 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by B-2 personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

A5.1.           AIRCRAFT FAMILIARIZATION
                TR: 1B-2A-2-00GV-00-1, 1B-2A-2-01JG Series,
                1B-2A-2-05GS-00-1
A5.1.1          Aircraft safe for maintenance                                 *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.1.2.         Engine air intake and exhaust                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A5.1.3.         High intensity sound                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A5.1.4.         Turbine plane of rotation                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A5.1.5.         Antenna radiation                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.1.6.         Ground handling of aircraft                                   *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.1.7.         Hot brakes                                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A5.1.8.         Hardness critical procedures                                  *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.1.9.         Low observable critical procedures                            *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.1.10.        Operate crew entry door                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.1.11.        Operate aft equipment bay door                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.1.12.        Operate weapons bay doors                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A5.1.13.        Operate Aft Nose Landing Gear Door                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A5.1.14.        Operate Engine Auxiliary Inlet Doors                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A5.1.15.        Operate Auxiliary Power Unit Doors                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A5.1.16.        Open/Close Engine AMAD Bay Doors                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.1.17.        Open/Close Hyd/ECS Bay Doors                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A5.1.18.        Remove / Install TARGA DDUC                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.1.19.        Remove / install aircraft access panels                       *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.1.20.        Use interphone                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.1.21.        Apply / disconnect external electrical power                  *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.1.22.        Apply / disconnect ground cooling air                         *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.1.23.        Jack team member                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.1.24.        Perform wing and tail walker                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A5.1.25.        Apply / disconnect external hydraulic power                   *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.2.           HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
                TR: 1B-2A-2-29GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-29JG Series,
                16W Series, 9H Series
A5.2.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A5.2.2.         Inspect system                                                      *                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.2.3.         Perform operational check                                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.2.4.         Drain hydraulic system                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A5.2.5.         Flush hydraulic system                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A5.2.6.         Service accumulators                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -


                                                                                   46                                                                              Attachment 5
                                                         B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                       Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                  Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                           A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                        5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                    Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A5.2.7.        Service reservoirs                                      *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.2.8.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.2.9.        Remove/Install Components
A5.2.9.1.      Pumps                                                   *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.2.9.2.      Pump manifolds                                          *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.2.9.3.      Reservoirs                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A5.2.9.4.      Valves                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.2.9.5.      Filters                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.2.9.6.      Modules                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.2.9.7.      Accumulators                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A5.2.9.8.      Indicating devices                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A5.2.9.9.      Service panels                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A5.2.9.10.     Ground servicing quick disconnects                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A5.2.10.       Bleed hydraulic power system                            *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.       Repair/overhaul/bench check components
               TR: 16W Series, 9H Series
A5.2.11.1.     Accumulator service panel                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.2.     System accumulator                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.3.     Bootstrap reservoir                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.4.     Reservoir fill filter and head assembly                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.5.     Reservoir ground service panel                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.6.     Reservoir overfill tank                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.7.     Hydraulic filter module                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.8.     Pump crossover manifold                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.9.     Crew entry door selector valve                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.10.    Accumulator dump valve module                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.11.    Reservoir fill selector valve                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.2.11.12.    Hydraulic servicing panel                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.2.12.       Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.3.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-2A-2-32GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-32JG Series, 9H Series
A5.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.3.2.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.3.3.        Perform operational check of normal system
A5.3.3.1.      Position A (supervisor)                                       *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.3.3.2.      Position B (flightdeck operator)                        *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.3.4.        Perform Operational check of emergency system
A5.3.4.1.      Position A (supervisor)                                       *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.3.4.2.      Position B (flightdeck operator)                        *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.3.5.        Inspect                                                       *                                                              -           -        -            -

                                                                            47                                                                            Attachment 5
                                                    B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                              Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                         Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                               3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                               5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                           Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A5.3.6.        Service struts                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.3.7.        Remove/install components
A5.3.7.1.      Proximity sensor logic unit                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A5.3.7.2.      Switching valves                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.3.7.3.      Valves                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.3.7.4.      Actuators                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A5.3.7.5.      Accumulators                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A5.3.7.6.      Repack/reseal NLG shock strut                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.3.7.7.      Repack/reseal MLG shock strut                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.3.7.8.      Remove/install landing gear control assembly                                                                        -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.        Repair/overhaul/bench check components
               TR: 9H Series
A5.3.8.1.      MLG door selector valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.2.      MLG door lock selector valve                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.3.      MLG door lock actuator                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.4.      NLG door lock actuator                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.5.      NLG door selector valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.6.      NLG selector valve                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.7.      MLG lock link actuator assembly                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.8.      NLG lock link actuator                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.9.      MLG uplock release actuator                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.10.     NLG uplock release actuator                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.11.     MLG extend emergency selector valve                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.12.     MLG emergency unlock actuator                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.13.     MLG emergency door unlock actuator                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.14.     MLG emergency extend accumulator                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.15.     NLG switching valve                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.16.     MLG emergency bypass valve                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.17.     MLG anti-blowback valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.18.     NLG anti-blowback valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.19.     Truck position pressure reducing valve                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.20.     NLG transfer cylinder                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.21.     NLG door transfer cylinder                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.22.     NLG emergency transfer cylinder                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.23.     NLG door emergency transfer cylinder                                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.24.     MLG retract actuator                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.25.     NLG actuator                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.26.     MLG door actuator                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.27.     NLG door actuator                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A5.3.8.28.     NLG emergency extend actuator                                                                                       -           -        -            -

                                                                   48                                                                            Attachment 5
                                                     B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                        Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                   Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                            A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                         5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                     Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A5.3.8.29.     NLG door emergency extend actuator                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A5.3.9.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                      *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.4.          NOSE WHEEL STEERING SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-2A-2-32GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-32JG Series, 9H Series
A5.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.4.2.        Perform operational check                                *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.4.3.        Inspect                                                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.4.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                      *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.4.5.        Remove/Install Components
A5.4.5.1.      Manifold                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.4.5.2.      Switches                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.4.5.3.      Valves                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A5.4.5.4.      Motor                                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A5.4.5.5.      Gearbox                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.4.6.        Bleed nose wheel steering system                         *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.4.7.        Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A5.4.7.1.      NLG steering compensator                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.4.7.2.      Perform adjustments                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A5.4.8.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                      *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.5.          WHEEL BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-32GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-32JG Series, 4B Series,
                9H Series
A5.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.5.2.        Perform operational check                                *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.5.3.        Inspect                                                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.5.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                      *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.5.5.        Remove/install components
A5.5.5.1.      Brake metering valve                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.5.5.2.      Valves                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A5.5.5.3.      Accumulator                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A5.5.5.4.      Antiskid modules                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.5.5.5.      Antiskid control unit                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A5.5.5.6.      Brakes                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A5.5.5.7.      Fuses                                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A5.5.5.8.      Anti-skid transducer                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.5.5.9.      Anti-skid landing light control assembly                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.5.6.        Bleed wheel brake system                                 *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.5.7.        Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A5.5.7.1.      Brake assembly                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.5.7.2.      Normal brake selector valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -


                                                                             49                                                                            Attachment 5
                                                    B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                       Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                  Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                           A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                        5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                    Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A5.5.7.3.      Alternate brake selector valve                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A5.5.7.4.      Emergency brake accumulator                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A5.5.8.        Perform adjustments                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.5.9.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.6.          FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: 1B-2A-2-27GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-27JG Series
A5.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.6.2.        Perform operational check                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.6.3.        Inspect                                                       *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.6.4.        Bleed flight control system                             *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.6.5.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.6.6.        Remove/install components
A5.6.6.1.      Rudder actuator                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.6.6.2.      Elevon actuator                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.6.6.3.      GLAS actuator                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.7.          WEAPONS BAY DOOR SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-94GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-94JG Series,
               Applicable component T.O.s
A5.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.7.2.        Perform operational check                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.7.3.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.7.4.        Inspect                                                       *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.7.5.        Remove/install components
A5.7.5.1.      Switching valve                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.7.5.2.      RLA PDU                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.7.5.3.      Door PDU                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.7.6.        Bleed weapon bay door system                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A5.7.7         Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A5.7.7.1.      Switching valve                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.7.8.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.8.          AIR REFUELING RECEIVER SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-28GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-28JG Series, 9H Series
A5.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.8.2.        Perform operational check                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.8.3.        Inspect                                                       *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.8.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.8.5.        Remove/install components
A5.8.5.1.      Switching valve                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.8.5.2.      Valves                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.8.5.3.      Air refueling slipway installation                                                                                           -           -        -            -


                                                                            50                                                                            Attachment 5
                                                     B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                       Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                  Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                           A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                        5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                    Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A5.8.5.4.      Rollover mechanism                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A5.8.6.        Bleed air refueling receiver system                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.8.7.        Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A5.8.7.1.      Switching valve                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.8.7.2.      Pressure reducing valve                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.8.8.        Perform adjustments                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.8.9.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.9.          ENGINE AUXILIARY INLET DOOR SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-71GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-71JG Series, 9H Series
A5.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.9.2.        Perform operational check                               *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.9.3.        Inspect                                                       *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.9.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.9.5.        Remove/install components
A5.9.5.1.      Actuators (AV 1-11)                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.9.5.2.      Actuators (AV 12 & sub)                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.9.5.3.      Valves                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.9.6.        Bleed engine auxiliary inlet door system                *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.9.7.        Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A5.9.7.1.      Selector valve                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A5.9.7.2.      Door actuator                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.9.8.        Perform adjustments                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.9.9.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.10.         AUXILIARY POWER UNIT DOOR SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-49GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-49JG Series, 9H Series
A5.10.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.10.2.       Perform operational check                               *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.10.3.       Inspect                                                       *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.10.4.       Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.10.5.       Remove/install components
A5.10.5.1.     Actuators                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.10.5.2.     Valves                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.10.5.3.     Accumulators                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A5.10.6.       Bleed auxiliary power unit door system                  *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.10.7.       Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A5.10.7.1.     Door accumulator                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A5.10.7.2.     Accumulator dump valve                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.10.7.3.     Pressure sequencing bypass valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A5.10.7.4.     Door emergency bypass valve                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A5.10.7.5.     Door normal selector valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -

                                                                            51                                                                            Attachment 5
                                                  B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                       Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                  Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                           A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                        5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                    Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A5.10.7.6.     Door emergency selector valve                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.10.7.7.     Exhaust door actuator                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A5.10.8.       Perform adjustments                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.10.9.       Troubleshoot malfunctions                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.11.         CREW ENTRY DOOR SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-52GS-00-1, 1B-2A-2-29JG Series,
               1B-2A-2-52JG Series, 9H Series
A5.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.11.2.       Perform operational check                               *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.11.3.       Inspect                                                       *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.11.4.       Troubleshoot malfunctions                                     *                                                              -           -        -            -
A5.11.5.       Remove/Install Components
A5.11.5.1.     Actuators                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.11.5.2.     Valves                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.11.5.3.     Accumulator                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A5.11.5.4.     Module                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.11.6.       Bleed crew entry door system                             *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A5.11.7.       Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A5.11.7.1.     Normal accumulator                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A5.11.7.2.     Alternate accumulator                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A5.11.7.3.     Valve module                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A5.11.7.4.     Door actuator                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.11.8.       Perform adjustments                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.11.9.       Troubleshoot malfunctions                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.12.         DEFENSE MANAGEMENT DOOR SYSTEM
               TR: 1B-2A-2-93GS-00-1, 1B-1A-2-93JG Series, 9H Series
A5.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A5.12.2.       Perform operational check                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.12.3.       Inspect                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A5.12.4.       Remove/install components
A5.12.4.1.     Valves                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A5.12.4.2.     Actuators                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A5.12.5.       Bleed defense management door system                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A5.12.6.       Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A5.12.6.1.     Door actuator                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A5.12.6.2.     Selector valve                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A5.12.7.       Perform adjustments                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A5.12.8.       Troubleshoot malfunctions                                                                                                    -           -        -            -




                                                                            52                                                                            Attachment 5
     B-2 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                53                   Attachment 5
                                                        B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                         To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A     B         A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                               5    7        Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                             Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 6 (B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 6 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 6 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by B-52 personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

A6.1.           COMMON MAINTENANCE PRACTICES
                TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A6.1.1.         Aircraft Safe for maintenance                                 *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.1.2.         Apply/disconnect external electrical power                    *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.1.3.         Apply/Disconnect external hydraulic power                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.1.4.         Remove/install aircraft access panels                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A6.1.5.         Ground aircraft or equipment                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A6.1.6.         Use interphone                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A6.1.7.         Jack aircraft                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A6.1.8.         Jack team member                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A6.2.           HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
                TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A6.2.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A6.2.2.         Perform operational check                                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.2.3.         Inspect System components                                           *                                                                -           -        -            -
A6.2.4.         Troubleshoot malfunctions                                           *                                                                -           -        -            -
A6.2.5.         Flush Hydraulic System                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A6.2.6.         Bleed Hydraulic System                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A6.2.7.         Service components                                            *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.2.8.         Remove components
A6.2.8.1.       Pumps                                                         *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.2.8.2.       Valves                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A6.2.8.3.       Filters                                                       *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.2.8.4.       Accumulators                                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A6.2.8.5.       Indicating Devices                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A6.2.8.6.       Reservoir                                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A6.2.9.         Install components
A6.2.9.1.       Pumps                                                         *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.2.9.2.       Valves                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A6.2.9.3.       Filters                                                       *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.2.9.4.       Accumulators                                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A6.2.9.5.       Indicating Devices                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A6.2.9.6.       Reservoir                                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A6.2.10.        Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A6.2.10.1.      Valves                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A6.2.10.2.      Accumulators                                                                                                                         -           -        -            -


                                                                                   54
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 6
                                                  B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                               Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                          Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                   A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                            Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A6.3.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A6.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A6.3.2.        Perform operational check of emergency system                                                                        -           -        -            -
A6.3.3.        Inspect system components                             *                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.3.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                             *                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.3.5.        Remove components
A6.3.5.1.      Actuators                                       *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A6.3.5.2.      Valves                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A6.3.6.        Install components
A6.3.6.1.      Actuators                                       *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A6.3.6.2.      Valves                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A6.3.7.        Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A6.3.7.1.      Actuators                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A6.3.7.2.      Valves                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A6.4.          WHEEL STEERING SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A6.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A6.4.2.        Perform Operational Check                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A6.4.3.        Inspect system components                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A6.4.4.        Remove components
A6.4.4.1.      Steering metering valve                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.4.4.2.      Steering actuators                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A6.4.4.3.      Swivels                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.4.5.        Install components
A6.4.5.1.      Steering metering valve                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.4.5.2.      Steering actuators                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A6.4.5.3.      Swivels                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.4.6.        Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A6.4.6.1.      Steering actuators                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A6.4.6.2.      Swivels                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.5.          WHEEL BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A6.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A6.5.2.        Perform operational check                       *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A6.5.3.        Inspect system components                             *                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.5.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                             *                                                              -           -        -            -

A6.5.5.        Bleed brake system                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A6.5.6..       Remove components
A6.5.6.1.      Swivels                                         *                                                                    -           -        -            -

                                                                    55
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 6
                                                 B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                           Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                            3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                            5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                        Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A6.5.6.2.      Brake assembly                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A6.5.6.3.      Valves                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A6.5.7.        Install components
A6.5.7.1.      Swivels                                     *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A6.5.7.2.      Brake assembly                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A6.5.7.3.      Valves                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A6.5.8.        Repair/Overhaul/ Bench Check Components
A6.5.8.1.      Swivels                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A6.5.8.2.      Brake Assembly                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A6.5.8.3.      Valves                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A6.6.          FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
A6.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A6.6.2.        Perform operational check                   *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A6.6.3.        Inspect system components                         *                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.6.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                         *                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.6.5.        Remove components
A6.6.5.1.      Actuators                                   *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A6.6.5.2.      Rudder elevator transformer                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.6.5.3.      Rudder elevator pump                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A6.6.5.4.      Rudder elevator reservoir                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A6.6.5.5.      Swivels                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A6.6.5.6.      Valves                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A6.6.6.        Install components
A6.6.6.1.      Actuators                                   *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A6.6.6.2.      Rudder elevator transformer                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A6.6.6.3.      Rudder elevator pump                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A6.6.6.4.      Rudder elevator reservoir                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A6.6.6.5.      Swivels                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A6.6.6.6.      Valves                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A6.6.7.        Repair/overhaul/bench check components
A6.6.7.1.      Valves                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A6.6.7.2.      Swivels                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A6.7.          WEAPONS/CARGO DOOR SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A6.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A6.7.2.        Perform operational check                   *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A6.7.3.        Inspect system components                         *                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.7.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                         *                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.7.5.        Remove components

                                                                56
                                                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                                 B-52 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                           2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                           Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                            3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                            5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                        Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A6.7.5.1.      Hydraulic actuators                         *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A6.7.5.2.      Hydraulic valves                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A6.7.5.3.      Hydraulic pumps                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A6.7.6.        Install components
A6.7.6.1.      Hydraulic actuators                         *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A6.7.6.2.      Hydraulic valves                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A6.7.6.3.      Hydraulic pumps                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A6.7.7.        Repair/overhaul/ bench check components
A6.7.7.1.      Hydraulic actuators                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A6.7.7.2.      Hydraulic valves                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A6.8.          AIR REFUELING RECEIVER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A6.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A6.8.2.        Perform operational check                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A6.8.3.        Inspect system components                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A6.8.4.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A6.8.5.        Remove components
A6.8.5.1.      Actuators                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A6.8.5.2.      Valves                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A6.8.6.        Install components
A6.8.6.1.      Actuators                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A6.8.6.2.      Valves                                                                                                           -           -        -            -




                                                                57
                                                                                                                                            Attachment 6
                                                        C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                          To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                            Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A    B          A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                                  3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                              5     7        Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                             Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

ATTACHMENT 7 (C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 7 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 7 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by C-5 personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
A7.1.           AIRCRAFT GROUND HANDLING
                TR: TO 1C-5A-2-1, 00-5-172, TO 1C-5A-2-4, 1C-5A-2-2,
                1C-5M-2 series
A7.1.1.         Perform Aircraft Safe for Maintenance                         *                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.1.2.         Ground aircraft or equipment                                  *                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.1.3.         Lubricate aircraft                                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.1.4.         Marshall aircraft                                                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.1.5.         Tow aircraft
A7.1.5.1.       Wing/tail walker duties                                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.1.5.2.       Tow brake operator                                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.1.5.3.       Tow panel operator                                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.1.5.4.       Tow vehicle operator                                                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.1.5.5.       Tow team supervisor                                                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.1.6.         Install and remove ground safety devices                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.1.7.         Perform refuel/defuel
                TR: Applicable TO/Checklist, TO 1C-5A-2-2, 1C-5M-2-1,
                1C-5A-2-4
A7.1.7.1.       SPR refuel/defuel member                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.1.7.2.       Refuel/defuel panel operator                                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.1.7.3.       Refuel/defuel supervisor                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.1.7.4.       Concurrent servicing supervisor                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.1.8.         Open and close engine cowling                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.1.9.         Remove/install aircraft access panels                         *                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.1.10.        Use interphone                                                *                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.1.11.        Perform aircraft egress                                       *                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.1.12.        Foreign object damage (FOD)/dropped object
                                                                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
                prevention program (DOPP) in and around aircraft
A7.1.13.        Perform DOPP inspection.                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.1.14.        Perform postflight inspection                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.1.15.        Perform preflight inspection                                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.1.16.        Perform thruflight inspection                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.1.17.        Perform home station check (HSC) inspection                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.1.18.        Perform isochronal inspection                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.1.19.        Apply/disconnect external legacy electrical power             *                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.1.20.        Apply / disconnect external electrical power avionics         *
                                                                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
                modernization program (AMP) modified aircraft
A7.1.21.        Apply/disconnect external electrical power                    *
                                                                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
                M-modified aircraft


                                                                                  58
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 7
                                                      C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                               Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    A    B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                            Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.1.22.       Apply / disconnect external hydraulic power      *                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.1.23.       Operate malfunction detection, analysis, and
                                                                                                                                     -           -        -           -
               recording system (MADARS)
A7.1.24.       Aircraft defensive system familiarization/
                                                                                                                                     -           -        -           -
               deactivation
A7.1.25.       Operate embedded diagnostic system (EDS)                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.1.26.       Aircraft danger area awareness                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.1.27.       Deactivate/reactivate FSS                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.1.28.       Confined space access procedures                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.1.29.       Use restraint harness                                                                                                 -           -        -           -
A7.1.30.       Perform kneel team member duties                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.1.31.       Jack or level aircraft
A7.1.31.1.     Safety                                                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.1.31.2.     Manifold operator                                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.1.31.3.     Perform jacking team member duties                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.1.31.4.     Jack team supervisor                                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.1.32.       Servicing
A7.1.32.1.     Service C-5A/B/M engine oil                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.1.32.2.     Service C-5A/B/M CSD/starter oil                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.1.32.3.     Service C-5 A/B/M APU/ATM oil                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.2.          HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-3 series, 1C-5M-2-3 series
A7.2.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.2.2.        Inspect system                                        *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.2.3.        Operate APU/ATM                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.2.4.        Operate PTU                                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.2.5.        Perform operational check                        *                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.2.6.        Troubleshoot system                                   *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.2.7.        Drain hydraulic system                                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.2.8.        Flush hydraulic system                                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.2.9.        Service accumulators                             *                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.2.10.       Service reservoir                                *                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.       Remove / install components
A7.2.11.1.     Engine driven pumps                              *                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.2.     Accumulators                                     *                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.3.     Case drain flow monitors (engine, ATM, PTU)                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.4.     Suction line wiggins/linflex fitting             *                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.5.     Engine driven pump depressurization valve        *                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.6.     Engine dual filter pack                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.7.     Suction shutoff valve                                                                                                 -           -        -           -


                                                                    59
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 7
                                                        C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                         Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                          5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                      Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.2.11.8.     Hydraulic driven suction boost pump                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.9.     Electric Driven Suction Boost Pump                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.10.    Power transfer unit                                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.11.    Power transfer manifold                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.12.    Hydraulic manifold cartridge valves                       *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.13.    ATM Pump                                                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.2.11.14.    Power generation system line replaceable units                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.3.          RAM AIR TURBINE SYSTEM
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2 series, 1C-5A-2-3, 1C-5M-2-3
A7.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.3.2.        Inspect system                                                  *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.3.3.        Perform operational check (manual)                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.3.4.        Perform operational check (auto–on jacks)                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.3.5.        Perform operational check (auto –on ground)                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.3.6.        Troubleshoot system                                             *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.3.7.        Remove / install components
A7.3.7.1.      Extend/retract actuator                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.3.7.2.      Pressure regulator                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.3.7.3.      Pump                                                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.3.7.4.      Ram air turbine line replaceable units                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.4.          AUXILIARY POWER UNIT HYDRAULIC START
               SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-5A-2 series, 1C-5A-2-4
A7.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.4.2.        Inspect system                                                  *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.4.3.        Perform operational check                                 *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.4.4.        Troubleshoot system                                             *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.4.5.        Remove / install components
A7.4.5.1.      Start motor                                                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.4.5.2.      Manifold                                                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.4.5.3.      Accumulator                                                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.4.5.4.      Line replaceable units (check valves, filters, pressure
                                                                                                                                               -           -        -           -
               switches)
A7.5.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-10 series, 1C-5A-2-10, 1C-5M-2-10
A7.5.1.        Operational fundamentals NLG extension and retraction
                                                                                                                                               -           -        -           -
               system (normal/emergency)
A7.5.2.        Operational fundamentals MLG extension and retraction
                                                                                                                                               -           -        -           -
               system (normal/emergency)
A7.5.3.        Inspect NLG strut and hydraulic actuating components            *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.5.4.        Inspect MLG strut and hydraulic actuating components            *                                                               -           -        -           -


                                                                              60
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 7
                                                    C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                 Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                             Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                     A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                   3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                  5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                              Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.5.5.        Perform operational check of normal system                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.5.6.        Perform operational check of emergency system                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.5.7.        Assist on operational check of normal system                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.5.8.        Assist on operational check of emergency system                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.5.9.        Assist on rig verification check of NLG system                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.5.10.       Assist on rig verification check of MLG system                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.5.11.       Reseal NLG shock strut assembly                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.5.12.       Reseal MLG shock strut assembly                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.5.13.       Disassemble MLG crosshead                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.5.14.       Assemble MLG crosshead                                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.5.15.       Adjust 90 degree switch on MLG normal rotation
                                                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
               Actuator
A7.5.16.       Troubleshoot system                                     *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.5.17.       Bleed and service MLG pitch position system                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.5.18.       Service MLG strut                                 *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.5.19.       Service NLG strut                                 *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.5.20.       Hot brakes inspection                                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.       Remove / install components
A7.5.21.1.     NLG door hydraulic brake                                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.2.     Clutch (NLG, MLG)                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.3.     Control manifold (NLG, MLG)                       *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.4.     MLG collar lock actuator                                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.5.     MLG rotation actuator (normal/emergency)                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.6.     MLG downlock actuator                                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.7.     NLG downlock actuator                                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.8.     MLG normal door lock actuator                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.9.     MLG rotation manifold                                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.10.    Emergency door unlock actuator                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.11.    MLG interlock sequence valve                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.12.    MLG collar lock sequence valve                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.13.    MLG emergency intercollar lock valve                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.14.    Motors                                                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.15.    Snubber valves                                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.16.    MLG pitch position master cylinder                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.17.    MLG emergency pitch stop cylinder                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.18.    MLG pitch position cylinder                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.19.    NLG normal door lock actuator                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.5.21.20.    Line replaceable units                                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.6.          NLG/MLG CASTER STEERING SYSTEMS
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-10 series, 1C-5M-2-10 series


                                                                      61
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 7
                                                        C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                          Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                              A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                       Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.6.1.        Operational fundamentals NLG steering system                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.6.2.        Operational fundamentals MLG castor and emergency
                                                                                                                                                -           -        -           -
               positioning system
A7.6.3.        Perform operational check of NLG steering components       *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.6.4.        Perform caster bite check                                                                                                        -           -        -           -

A7.6.5.        Inspect NLG steering components                                  *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.6.6.        Inspect caster and emergency positioning components              *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.6.7.        Perform caster and emergency positioning operational
                                                                                                                                                -           -        -           -
               check
A7.6.8.        Troubleshoot system                                              *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.6.9.        Remove / install components
A7.6.9.1.      NLG steering control valve                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.6.9.2.      NLG steering shuttle valve                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.6.9.3.      NLG steering actuator                                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.7.          LANDING GEAR KNEEL SYSTEM
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-10 series, 1C-5M-2-10 series
A7.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.7.2.        Inspect NLG/MLG kneeling system components                       *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.7.3.        Perform operational checks of kneeling system              *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.7.4.        Troubleshoot kneeling system                                     *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.7.5.        Remove / install Components
A7.7.5.1.      MLG kneel brake                                                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.7.5.2.      MLG kneel motor                                            *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.7.5.3.      NLG Shift Clutch Pilot Valve                                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.7.5.4.      Line replaceable components (flow regulators, control
                                                                                                                                                -           -        -           -
               valves)
A7.8.          WHEEL BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-10, 1C-5M-2-10
A7.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.8.2.        Perform operational check and brake/anti-skid bite Check   *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.8.3.        Inspect brake anti-skid components                               *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.8.4.        Troubleshoot brake/anti-skid system                              *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.8.5.        Bleed brake system (normal/alternate/emergency)            *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.8.6.        Remove / install components
A7.8.6.1.      Seven port brake valve                                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.8.6.2.      Ballscrew brake fluid transfer housing                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.8.6.3.      Brake piston cap assemblies                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.8.6.4.      MLG brake assembly                                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.8.6.5.      Anti-skid manifold                                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.8.6.6.      Brake system control valves                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.8.6.7.      Brake metering valves                                                                                                            -           -        -           -

                                                                               62
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 7
                                                       C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                        Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                    Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                            A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                         5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                     Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.8.6.8.      Line replaceable components (fuses, swivels, pressure
                                                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
               switches, hoses)
A7.9.          FWD LOADING SYSTEM
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-12 series, 1C-5M-2-12 series
A7.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.9.2.        Inspect fwd visor and ramp system components                   *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.9.3.        Perform operational check fwd visor and ramp system                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.9.4.        Troubleshoot fwd visor and ramp system                         *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.9.5.        Operate fwd visor and ramp system
A7.9.5.1.      Manual mode                                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.9.5.2.      Auto mode                                                *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.9.6.        Remove / install components
A7.9.6.1.      Cargo door control manifold (aft cargo doors and ramp
                                                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
               or fwd cargo door and ramp)
A7.9.6.2.      Ramp bypass relief valve                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.9.6.3.      Fwd ramp lock actuator                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.9.6.4.      Visor lock actuator                                      *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.9.6.5.      Visor motor                                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.9.6.6.      Fwd ramp actuator                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.9.6.7.      Fwd ramp extension actuator                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.9.6.8.      Fwd ramp extension toe plate actuator                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.9.6.9.      Line replaceable components (fuses, check valve,
                                                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
               blocking valve, cartridge valves)
A7.10.         AFT LOADING SYSTEM
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-12 series, 1C-5M-2-12 series
A7.10.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.10.2.       Inspect aft cargo doors and ramp system components             *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.10.3.       Perform Operational Checks of aft cargo doors and ramp
                                                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
               system
A7.10.4.       Troubleshoot aft cargo doors and ramp system                   *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.10.5.       RIG aft ramp asymmetry servo valve                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.10.6.       Operate aft cargo doors and ramp loading systems
A7.10.6.1.     Manual mode                                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.10.6.2.     Auto mode                                                *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.10.7.       Remove / install components
A7.10.7.1.     Aft ramp actuator                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.10.7.2.     Ramp to press door actuator B/L 84                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.10.7.3.     Aft ramp lock actuator                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.10.7.4.     Pressure door actuator                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.10.7.5.     Hinge select actuator                                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.10.7.6.     Side door actuator                                                                                                             -           -        -           -


                                                                             63
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 7
                                                      C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                         Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                          5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                      Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.10.7.7.     Aft ramp asymmetry servo valve                                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.10.7.8.     Aft center door motor                                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.10.7.9.     Line replaceable components (fuses, check valve,
                                                                                                                                               -           -        -           -
               blocking valve, cartridge valves, swivels)
A7.11.         PRIMARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-9 series, 1C-5A-2-9-1, 1C-5M-2-9
A7.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.11.2.       Inspect primary flight control system components                *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.11.3.       Perform operational checks of primary flight controls     *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.11.4.       Troubleshoot primary flight controls                            *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.11.5.       Remove / install components
A7.11.5.1.     Aileron manifold                                          *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.11.5.2.     Rudder manifold                                                                                                                 -           -        -           -
A7.11.5.3.     Elevator manifold                                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.11.5.4.     Aileron actuator                                          *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.11.5.5.     Rudder actuator                                                                                                                 -           -        -           -
A7.11.5.6.     Elevator actuator                                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.11.5.7.     Elevator variable feel unit                                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.11.5.8.     Primary flight control manifold components (pressure
                                                                                                                                               -           -        -           -
               switch, SOV, SOV motor)
A7.11.5.9.     Primary flight control gust locks                         *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.12.         SECONDARY FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-9 series, 1C-5M-2-9 series
A7.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.12.2.       Inspect secondary flight control system components              *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.12.3.       Perform operational checks of secondary flight controls   *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.12.4.       Troubleshoot secondary flight controls                          *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.12.5.       Null flap pack control valve                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.12.6.       Remove / install components
A7.12.6.1.     Flap pack                                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.12.6.2.     Slat clutch/brake assembly                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.12.6.3.     Normal/alt pitch trim manifold and components                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.12.6.4.     Normal/alternate pitch trim motor/brake                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.12.6.5.     Flight spoiler actuator                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.12.6.6.     Ground spoiler actuator                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.13.         CREW ENTRY DOOR/STAIR LADDER
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-12 series, 1C-5M-2-12 series
A7.13.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.13.2.       Perform operational check                                 *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.13.3.       Inspect system                                                  *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.13.4.       Troubleshoot system                                             *                                                               -           -        -           -

                                                                              64
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 7
                                                      C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                        Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                    Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                            A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                         5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                     Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.13.5.       Remove / install components
A7.13.5.1.     Crew entry door/stair ladder flight station ladder
                                                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
               line replaceable units
A7.13.5.2.     Crew entry door manifolds                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.13.5.3.     Crew entry door actuator                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.13.5.4.     Crew entry door lock actuator                                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.13.5.5.     Crew entry door accumulator                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.14.         AFT TROOP COMPARTMENT STAIR LADDER
               SYSTEM
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-12 series, 1C-5M-2-12 series
A7.14.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.14.2.       Perform operational check                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.14.3.       Inspect system                                                 *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.14.4.       Troubleshoot system                                            *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.15.         REMOVE / INSTALL COMPONENTS
A7.15.1.       Manifold                                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.15.2.       Actuator                                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.15.3.       Hand Pump                                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.16.         AIR REFUELING RECEIVER SYSTEM
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-5, 1C-5M-2-5
A7.16.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.16.2.       Perform operational check                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.16.3.       Inspect system                                                 *                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.16.4.       Troubleshoot system                                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.16.5.       Remove selector valve                                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.16.6.       Install selector valve                                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.16.7.       Remove toggle lock actuator                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.16.8.       Install toggle lock actuator                                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.17.         AIRCRAFT CARGO WINCH SYSTEM
               TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-2, 1C-5M-2-2 (B/M Model Only)
A7.17.1.       Operational fundamentals (B/M model only)                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.17.2.       Perform operational check (B/M model only)                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.17.3.       Inspect system (B/M model only)                                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.17.4.       Remove fwd/aft winch selector valves (B/M model only)                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.17.5.       Install fwd/aft winch selector valves (B/M model only)                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.17.6.       Troubleshoot system (B/M model only)                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.18.         EMERGENCY GENERATOR SYSTEM
.              TR: TOs 1C-5A-2-7, 1C-5M-2-7
A7.18.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.18.2.       Perform operational check                                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.18.3.       Inspect system                                                 *                                                               -           -        -           -


                                                                             65
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 7
                                                       C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                      Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                  Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                          A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                       5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                   Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.18.4.       Troubleshoot system                                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.18.5.       Remove manifold                                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.18.6.       Install manifold                                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.18.7.       Remove generator                                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.18.8.       Install generator
                                                                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.19.         INSPECT/OVERHAUL/BENCH CHECK EQUIPMENT
               TR: 9H2-5-247-3, TO 9H2-5-221-3, TO 9H2-5-210-3,
               TO 9H2-4-186-3, TO H8-5-213-3, TO 19H8-14-99-3,
               TO 9H8-30-93-3
A7.19.1.       Fwd doors
A7.19.1.1.     Bench check visor lock cylinder                        *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.2.     Repair/overhaul visor lock cylinder                    *                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.3.     Bench check visor cab top lock cylinder                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.4.     Repair/overhaul visor cab top tock cylinder                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.5.     Bench check ramp uplock cylinder                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.6.     Repair/overhaul ramp cplock cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.7.     Bench check ramp cylinder                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.8.     Repair/overhaul ramp cylinder                                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.9.     Bench check ramp extension cylinder                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.10.    Repair/overhaul ramp extension cylinder                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.11.    Bench check toe plate cylinder                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.12.    Repair/overhaul toe plate cylinder                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.13.    Bench check pressure release valve, sel ramp ext                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.14.    Repair/overhaul pressure release valve, sel ramp ext                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.15.    Bench check directional control valve                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.19.1.16.    Repair/overhaul directional control valve                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.19.2.       Crew entry/flight deck
               TR: TO 9H2-5-219-3, TO 9H8-4-188-3, TO 9H2-5-213-3
A7.19.2.1.     Bench check crew entry door cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.2.2.     Repair/overhaul crew entry door cylinder                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.2.3.     Bench check crew entry door lock cylinder                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.19.2.4.     Repair/overhaul crew entry door lock cylinder                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.19.2.5.     Bench check flight station ladder cylinder                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.19.2.6.     Repair/overhaul flight station ladder cylinder                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.       Aft doors
               TR: TO 9H2-5-232-3, TO 9H2-5-214-3, TO 9H2-5-212-3,
               TO 9H2-5-216-3, TO 11HCC-9H2-5-192-3,
               TO 9H2-5-192-3, TO 9H2-5-211-3, TO 9H2-4-188-3,
               TO 9H2-4-187-3, TO 9H2-4-190-3, TO 13Cl-35-3-2,
               TO 9H8-15-35-3, TO 9H8-5-215-3, TO 9H2-5-248-3,
               TO 9H8-30-94-3
A7.19.3.1.     Bench check ramp/press door lock cylinder (BL.28)                                                                            -           -        -           -

                                                                           66
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 7
                                                        C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                       Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                   Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                           A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                        5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                    Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.19.3.2.     Repair/overhaul ramp/press door lock cylinder (BL.28)                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.3.     Bench check ramp cylinder                                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.4.     Repair/overhaul ramp cylinder                                                                                                 -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.5.     Bench check ramp uplock cylinder                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.6.     Repair/overhaul ramp uplock cylinder                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.7.     Bench check upper press door cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.8.     Repair/overhaul upper press door cylinder                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.9.     Bench check lower press door cylinder (BL.84)                                                                                 -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.10.    Repair/overhaul lower press door cylinder (BL.84)                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.11.    Bench check press door uplock release cylinder                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.12.    Repair/overhaul press door uplock release cylinder                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.13.    Bench check hinge select cylinder                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.14.    Repair/overhaul hinge select cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.15.    Bench check center door drag latch cylinder                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.16.    Repair/overhaul center door drag latch cylinder                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.17.    Bench check grab latch cylinder                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.18.    Repair/overhaul grab latch cylinder                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.19.    Bench check aft door bayonet cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.20.    Repair/overhaul aft door bayonet cylinder                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.21.    Bench check hydraulic cargo winch                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.22.    Repair/overhaul hydraulic cargo winch                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.23.    Bench check ramp unlock pressure reducer                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.24.    Repair/overhaul ramp unlock pressure reducer                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.25.    Bench check fwd side door actuator                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.26.    Repair/overhaul fwd side door actuator                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.27.    Bench check aft side door actuator                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.28.    Repair/overhaul aft side door actuator                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.29.    Bench check troop ladder actuator                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.30.    Repair/overhaul troop ladder actuator                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.31.    Bench check center door snubber valve                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.3.32.    Repair/overhaul center door snubber valve                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.       Main landing gear (MLG) actuation
               TR: TO 4A6-7-3, TO 9H2-2-110-3, TO 4Sl-94-3,
               TO 9H2-2-90-3, TO 9H2-3-80-3, TO 9H2-2-100-43,
               TO 9H2-2-100-53, TO 9H2-2-100-13, TO 9H2-2-100-3,
               TO 9H8-22-17-2, TO 9H2-2-87-3, TO 9H8-35-8-3,
               TO 9H8-9-35-3, TO 9H8-15-39-3, TO 9H8-40-3,
               TO 4S1-93-3
A7.19.4.1.     Bench check bogie pitch pos cylinder                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.2.     Repair/overhaul bogie pitch pos cylinder                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.3.     Bench check bogie pitch master cylinder                                                                                       -           -        -           -

                                                                            67
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 7
                                                      C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                        2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                        Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                    Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                            A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                         5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                     Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.19.4.4.     Repair/overhaul bogie pitch master cylinder                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.5.     Bench check bogie pitch safety/stop assembly                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.6.     Repair/overhaul bogie pitch safety/stop assembly                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.7.     Repair/overhaul emergency door lock cylinder                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.8.     Repair/overhaul normal door lock cylinder                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.9.     Bench check normal rotation cylinder                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.10.    Repair/overhaul normal rotation cylinder                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.11.    Bench check emergency rotation cylinder                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.12.    Repair/overhaul emergency rotation cylinder                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.13.    Bench check emergency collar lock cylinder                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.14.    Repair/overhaul emergency collar lock cylinder                                                                                 -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.15.    Bench check normal rotation (collar) lock cylinder                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.16.    Repair/overhaul normal rotation (collar) lock cylinder                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.17.    Bench check MLG snubber valve                                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.18.    Repair/overhaul MLG snubber valve                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.19.    Bench check downlock actuator                                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.20.    Repair/overhaul downlock actuator                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.21.    Bench check doorlock control valve                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.22.    Repair/overhaul doorlock control valve                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.23.    Bench check interlock sequence valve                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.24.    Repair/overhaul interlock sequence valve                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.25.    Bench check pressure reducer                                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.26.    Repair/overhaul pressure reducer                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.27.    Bench check rotation pilot sequence valve                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.28.    Repair/overhaul rotation pilot sequence valve                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.29.    Remove MLG shock strut outer cylinder assembly                                                                                 -           -        -           -
A7.19.4.30.    Install MLG shock strut outer cylinder assembly                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.19.5.       Nose landing gear (NLG) actuation
               TR: TO 9H2-3-80-3, TO 9H8-35-8-3, TO 4S2-67-3,
               TO 9H8-5-64-3
A7.19.5.1.     Bench check normal door lock/unlock cylinder                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.19.5.2.     Repair/overhaul normal door lock/unlock cylinder                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.5.3.     Bench check door lock control valve                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.19.5.4.     Repair/overhaul door lock control valve                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.19.5.5.     Bench check downlock/uplock actuator                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.5.6.     Repair/overhaul downlk/uplock actuator                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.5.7.     Bench check emergency downlk/uplock actuator                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.19.5.8.     Repair/overhaul emergency downlk/uplock actuator                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.5.9.     Bench check uplock shuttle valve                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.5.10.    Repair/overhaul uplock shuttle valve                                                                                           -           -        -           -

                                                                             68
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 7
                                                         C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                     Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                         A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                      5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                  Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.19.6.       MLG brake system
               TR: TO 4B1-2-1203, TO 9H7-2-8-3, 4BA4-101-3
A7.19.6.1.     Bench check carbon brake assembly                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.6.2.     Repair/overhaul carbon brake assembly                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.19.6.3.     Bench check parking brake accumulator                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.19.6.4.     Repair/overhaul parking brake accumulator                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.19.6.5.     Bench check 7-port valve                                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.19.6.6.     Repair/overhaul 7-port valve                                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.19.7.       NLG steering
               TR: TO 4S2-67-3, TO 9H7-2-8-3
A7.19.7.1.     Bench check steering cylinders LH, RH                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.19.7.2.     Repair/overhaul steering cylinders LH, RH                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.19.7.3.     Bench check steering accumulator                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.19.7.4.     Repair/overhaul steering accumulator                                                                                        -           -        -           -
A7.19.8.       Power/caster
               TR: TO 4A6-6-3
A7.19.8.1.     Bench check powerback cylinder                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.19.8.2.     Repair/overhaul powerback cylinder                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.19.9.       Kneeling system
               TR: TO 9H10-3-48-3, TO 9H8-30-117-3
A7.19.9.1.     Bench check kneel motor                                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.9.2.     Repair/overhaul kneel motor                                                                                                 -           -        -           -
A7.19.9.3.     Bench heck kneel control valve                                                                                              -           -        -           -
A7.19.9.4.     Repair/overhaul kneel control valve                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.      Flight controls
               TR: TO 5A12-2-25-3, TO 9H2-4-195-3, TO 5A12-2-24-3,
               TO 5A12-224-3, TO 5A13-9-9-3,
A7.19.10.1.    Bench check aileron cylinder                                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.2.    Repair/overhaul aileron cylinder                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.3.    Bench check flight spoiler cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.4.    Repair/overhaul flight spoiler cylinder                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.5.    Bench check upper rudder cylinder                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.6.    Repair/overhaul upper rudder cylinder                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.7.    Bench check lower rudder cylinder                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.8.    Repair/overhaul lower rudder cylinder                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.9.    Bench check INBD elevator cylinder                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.10.   Repair/overhaul INBD elevator cylinder                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.11.   Bench check OUTBD elevator cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -           -
A7.19.10.12.   Repair/overhaul OUTBD elevator cylinder                                                                                     -           -        -           -
A7.19.11.      APU start system
               TR: TO 9H8-4-80-13, TO 9H1-4-3-3


                                                                          69
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 7
                                                      C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                    Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                        A     B       A         B         C          D           E          A           B              C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level     5-Level        7 Level
                                                                     5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)          (2)
                                                                                 Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course       CDC

A7.19.11.1.    Bench check APU hydraulic start motor                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.19.11.2.    Repair/overhaul APU hydraulic start motor                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.19.11.3.    Bench check APU start accumulator                                                                                          -           -        -           -
A7.19.11.4.    Repair/overhaul APU start accumulator                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.19.12.      Hydraulic power generation
               TR: TO 9H8-4-80-13, TO 9H8-4-209-3, TO 9H3-3-79-3,
               TO 9H7-2-8-3, TO 9H8-36-2-3
A7.19.12.1.    Bench check suction line SOV                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.12.2.    Repair/overhaul suction line SOV                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.12.3.    Bench check ATM pressure SOV                                                                                               -           -        -           -
A7.19.12.4.    Repair/overhaul ATM pressure SOV                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.12.5.    Bench check dual engine filter manifold                                                                                    -           -        -           -
A7.19.12.6.    Repair/overhaul dual engine filter manifold                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.19.12.7.    Bench check RAT accumulator                                                                                                -           -        -           -
A7.19.12.8.    Repair/overhaul RAT accumulator                                                                                            -           -        -           -
A7.19.12.9.    Bench check reservoir selector valve                                                                                       -           -        -           -
A7.19.12.10.   Repair/overhaul reservoir selector valve                                                                                   -           -        -           -
A7.19.13.      Air refueling receiver systems
               TR: TO 9H2-4-191-3, TO 9H8-30-141-3, TO 6A6-14-3
A7.19.13.1.    Bench check ARR slipway door actuator                                                                                      -           -        -           -
A7.19.13.2.    Repair/overhaul ARR slipway door actuator                                                                                  -           -        -           -
A7.19.13.3.    Bench check 3-way solenoid                                                                                                 -           -        -           -
A7.19.13.4.    Repair/overhaul 3-way solenoid                                                                                             -           -        -           -
A7.19.13.5.    Bench check toggle lock actuator                                                                                           -           -        -           -
A7.19.13.6.    Repair/overhaul toggle lock actuator                                                                                       -           -        -           -




                                                                         70
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 7
     C-5 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                71
                                     Attachment 7
                                                        C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core      3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                             Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A     B         A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                              5     7        Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                             Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

ATTACHMENT 8 (C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 8 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 8 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by C-17 personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

A8.1.           AIRCRAFT GROUND HANDLING
                TR: TO 10 JG Series, TO 09 JG-10 Series,
                TO 54 JG-10 Series, TO 23JG-40 Series,
                TO 10JG-60 Series, TO 40JG-20 Series,
                TO 34JG-60 Series, TO 31JG-50 Series,
                TO 00JG-00 Series,
A8.1.1.         Perform aircraft safe for maintenance                         *                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.2.         Ground aircraft or equipment                                  *                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.3.         Tow aircraft
A8.1.3.1.       Tow team supervisor                                                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.1.3.2.       Tow vehicle operator                                                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.1.3.3.       Hand Pump Operator                                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.1.3.4.       Tow brake operator                                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.1.3.5.       Perform wing/tail walker duties                                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.4.         Open/close engine accessory compartment doors                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.1.5.         Remove/install aircraft panels                                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.1.6.         Operate interphone system                                     *                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.7.         Perform aircraft egress                                       *                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.8.         Foreign object damage (FOD)/dropped object
                                                                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
                prevention program (DOPP) in and around aircraft
A8.1.9.         Connect/disconnect external electrical power                  *                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.10.        Connect/disconnect ground A/C unit                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.1.11.        Connect/disconnect external hydraulic power                   *                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.12.        Operate MMP using maintenance monitor mode to                 *
                                                                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
                erase faults
A8.1.13.        Operate mission computing system                              *                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.14.        Operate visual warning & caution system                       *                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.15.        Operate multifunction display system                          *                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.16.        Fuselage/wing access entry/exit                                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.17.        Vertical stabilizer entry/exit                                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.1.18.        Horizontal stabilizer entry/exit                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.1.19.        Power off under floor maintenance tunnel entry/exit                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.1.20.         Power on under floor maintenance tunnel entry/exit                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.1.21.        Cargo ramp maintenance tunnel entry/exit                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.1.22.        Remove and install ground safety devices
                TR: 05 JG-10 Series
A8.1.22.1.      Aileron ground safety lock                                    *                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.22.2.      Aileron control surface ground safety lock                    *                                                                      -            -        -                 -

                                                                                  72
                                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 8
                                                       C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                     Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                  Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                         A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                      5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                  Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

A8.1.22.3.     Elevator ground safety lock                           *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.1.22.4.     Elevator control surface ground safety lock           *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.1.22.5.     Rudder ground safety lock                             *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.1.22.6.     Rudder control external surface ground safety lock    *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.1.22.7.     Rudder control surface actuator collar                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.1.22.8.     Rudder control surface actuator brace                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.1.22.9.     Spoiler positioning support assembly                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.1.22.10.    Flap control handle ground safety lock                *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.1.22.11.    Cargo ramp/door safeing & restoration                 *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.1.23.       Jack aircraft
               TR: TO 1C-17A-2-07JG-10 series
A8.1.23.1.     Safety                                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.1.23.2.     Manual                                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.1.23.3.     Manifold                                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.1.23.4.     Perform fuselage jacking team member duties                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.1.23.5.     Perform integral jacking team member duties                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.1.23.6.     Plumb bob monitor duties                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.2.          HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
               TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-29 series, 1C-17A-12JG-2-29 series
A8.2.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.2.2.        Inspect system                                              *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.2.3.        Troubleshoot hydraulic power system                         *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.2.4.        Service hydraulic reservoir primary method            *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.5.        Service hydraulic reservoir alternate method          *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.6.        Bleed hydraulic reservoir                             *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.7.        Drain hydraulic reservoir                             *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.8.        Operational check main hydraulic power system         *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.9.        Operational check auxiliary hydraulic power system    *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.10.       Operate hydraulic system controller                   *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.11.       Operational check RAT system                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.2.12.       RAT system adjustment input                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.2.13.       Stow/deploy RAT assembly                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.2.14.       Service bootstrap accumulator                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.       Remove/install components
A8.2.15.1.     Engine driven hydraulic pump                          *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.2.     Pump depressurization solenoid coil                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.3.     Pylon press Check valve                                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.4.     Pylon case drain Check valve                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.5.     Hydraulic system panel assembly                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.6.     Hydraulic system control unit                                                                                              -            -        -                 -

                                                                          73
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 8
                                                        C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                      Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                   Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                          A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                       5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                   Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

A8.2.15.7.     Filter bowl ratchet lever                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.8.     Eng filter manifold assembly                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.9.     Engine filter manifold bleed valve                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.10.    Hydraulic system reservoir assembly                                                                                         -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.11.    Hydraulic reservoir drain valve                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.12.    Hydraulic reservoir depress valve                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.13.    Hydraulic return system manifolds                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.14.    Return system manifold check valve                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.15.    Filter elements                                        *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.16.    Hydraulic servicing reservoir fill container                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.17.    Reservoir bleed valve                                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.18.    Hydraulic servicing rotary hand pump                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.19.    Reservoir fill filter manifold                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.20.    Reservoir Fill Selector Valve                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.21.    Reservoir fill filter manifold element                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.22.    Reservoir over board relief valve                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.23.    Emergency power shutoff valve                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.24.    Hydraulic fluid sump assembly                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.25.    Hydraulic fuse assembly                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.26.    Auxiliary hydraulic pump                               *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.27.    Trans/rev motor pump                                   *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.28.    Trans/rev motor pump shutoff valve                     *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.29.    Auxiliary hydraulic pump filter manifold                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.30.    Reservoir selector valve                                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.31.    Trans/rev motor pump manifold assembly                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.32.    Auxiliary hydraulic pump selector valve manifold                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.33.    RAT electro mechanical actuator                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.34.    RAT ejection jack assembly                                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.35.    RAT power unit mechanical up lock assembly                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.36.    ADS manifold cargo press switch                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.37.    Trans/rev motor pump manifold cargo press switch                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.38.    Filter manifold diff press indicators                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.39.    Return filter manifold press transducers                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.40.    Reservoir low quantity sensor assembly                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.41.    Reservoir liquid quantity transducers                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.42.    Reservoir fill selector valve rotary quantity switch                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.43.    Temperature switches                                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.44.    Reservoir temp transducer                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.45.    Filter manifold press switches                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.46.    MLG shock strut jacking selector valve                                                                                      -            -        -                 -

                                                                           74
                                                                                                                                                          Attachment 8
                                                      C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                         Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                          5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                      Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

A8.2.15.47.    Gust damper accumulator                                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.48.    Gust damper relief valve                                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.49.    Gust damper accum service gage/valve                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.50.    Isolation selector manifold                                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.51.    System line replaceable units (hoses, fittings, tubing)                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.2.15.52.    Hydraulic hand pump                                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.2.16.       Rosan fittings
               TR: T.O. 44H1-1-13, Applicable Aircraft T.O.s
A8.2.16.1.     Remove/Install                                                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.3.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
               TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-32JG series, 1C-17A-12JG-32 series
A8.3.1.        MLG/NLG struts/actuation
A8.3.1.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.2.      Inspect system                                                  *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.3.      Troubleshoot landing gear actuation system                      *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.4.      Perform MLG normal system operational check (person A)          *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.5.      Perform MLG emergency system operational check                  *
                                                                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
               (person A)
A8.3.1.6.      Perform NLG normal system operational check (person A)          *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.7.      Perform NLG emergency system operational check                  *
                                                                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
               (person A)
A8.3.1.8.      Assist MLG normal system operational check (person B)     *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.9.      Assist MLG emergency system operational check             *
                                                                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
               (person B)
A8.3.1.10.     Assist NLG normal system operational check (person B)     *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.11.     Assist NLG emergency system operational check (person B) *                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.12.     Service NLG strut with hydraulic fluid                    *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.13.     Service NLG strut with nitrogen                           *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.14.     Service MLG strut with hydraulic fluid                    *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.15.     Service MLG strut with nitrogen                           *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.16.     Service NLG strut with OBIGGS nitrogen                                                                                         -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.17.     Service MLG strut with OBIGGS nitrogen                                                                                         -            -        -                 -
A8.3.1.18.     Service MLG shimmy damper                                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.        Remove/install components
A8.3.2.1.      MLG shock strut cylinder assembly                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.2.      MLG/NLG shock strut servicing valve                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.3.      MLG shock strut jacking valve adapter                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.4.      MLG shock strut press gage                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.5.      NLG shock strut bearing packings with spares                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.6.      NLG shock strut bearing packings                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.7.      LG control valve assembly                                                                                                      -            -        -                 -

                                                                              75
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 8
                                                      C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                         Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                          5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                      Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

A8.3.2.8.      MLG retract cylinder manifold assembly.                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.9.      MLG Retract Cylinder                                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.10.     MLG down lock cylinder assembly.                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.11.     MLG up latch cylinder assembly                                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.12.     Nose landing gear retract cylinder                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.13.     Nose landing gear down lock cylinder                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.14.     System line replaceable units (hoses, fittings, tubing)                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.3.2.15.     MLG Shimmy Damper/Reservoir                                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.4.          BRAKE/ANTISKID SYSTEM
               TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-32 series, 1C-17A-2-12JG-32 series
A8.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.4.2.        Inspect system                                                  *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.4.3.        Troubleshoot brake system                                       *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.4.4.        Brake system operational checkout                         *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.4.5.        Service emergency brake accumulator                       *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.4.6.        Bleed brakes                                              *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.4.7.        Perform adjustments                                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.        Remove/install components
A8.4.8.1.      MLG brake assembly                                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.2.      MLG brake assembly bleed valve                                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.3.      Parking brake accumulator                                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.4.      Parking brake accumulator service gage/valve                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.5.      Dual brake control valve                                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.6.      Hydraulic switching brake manifold                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.7.      Anti-skid manifold assembly                                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.8.      Anti-skid manifold hydraulic fuse                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.9.      Anti-skid servo valve                                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.10.     Anti-skid return shutoff valve                                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.11.     Brake shuttle manifold assembly                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.12.     Brake pressure transducer                                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.4.8.13.     System line replaceable units (hoses, fittings, tubing)                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.5.          NOSEWHEEL STEERING SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-17A-2-32 series
A8.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.5.2.        Inspect system                                                  *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.5.3.        Troubleshoot nose wheel steering system                         *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.5.4.        Nose wheel steering system operational checkout           *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.5.5.        Remove/install components
A8.5.5.1.      Nose wheel steering cylinder                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.5.5.2.      Upper swivel gland                                                                                                             -            -        -                 -

                                                                              76
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 8
                                                   C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                           2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                           Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                        Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                               A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                            5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                        Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

A8.5.5.3.      Lower swivel gland                                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.5.5.4.      Relief valve                                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.5.5.5.      Nose wheel steering tandem hydraulic bypass valve                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.5.5.6.      Nose wheel steering tandem hydraulic control valve                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.6.          FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: TO 1C-17A-2-27 series
A8.6.1.        Primary flight control systems
A8.6.1.1.      Aileron system operational fundamentals                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.6.1.2.      Inspect aileron system                                            *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.1.3.      Troubleshoot aileron system                                       *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.1.4.      Perform operational check of aileron mechanical controls    *
                                                                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
               & surfaces
A8.6.1.5.      Rudder system operational fundamentals                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.6.1.6.      Inspect rudder system                                             *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.1.7.      Troubleshoot rudder system                                        *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.1.8.      Perform operational check of rudder mechanical controls     *
                                                                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
               & surfaces
A8.6.1.9.      Elevator system operational fundamentals                                                                                         -            -        -                 -
A8.6.1.10.     Inspect elevator system                                           *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.1.11.     Troubleshoot elevator system                                      *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.1.12.     Perform operational check of elevator mechanical controls   *
                                                                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
               & surfaces
A8.6.2.        Remove/install components
A8.6.2.1.      Aileron actuator                                            *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.6.2.2.      Aileron IFCM                                                *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.6.2.3.      Aileron IFCM quad contact switch                                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.6.2.4.      Rudder actuator                                                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.6.2.5.      Rudder IFCM quad contact switch                                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.6.2.6.      Rudder IFCM                                                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.6.2.7.      Elevator actuator                                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.6.2.8.      Elevator IFCM quad contact switch                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.6.2.9.      Elevator IFCM                                                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.        Secondary flight control systems
               TR: TO 1C-17A-2-27 series
A8.6.3.1.      Pitch trim system operational fundamentals                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.2.      Inspect pitch trim system                                         *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.3.      Troubleshoot pitch trim system                                    *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.4.      Perform operational check of horizontal stab system         *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.5.      Flap system operational fundamentals                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.6.      Inspect flap system                                               *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.7.      Troubleshoot flap system                                          *                                                              -            -        -                 -

                                                                                77
                                                                                                                                                               Attachment 8
                                                       C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                          Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                       Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                              A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

A8.6.3.8.      Perform flap system operational check primary method       *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.9.      Perform flap system operational check alternate method     *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.10.     Slat system operational fundamentals                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.11.     Inspect slat system                                              *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.12.     Troubleshoot slat system                                         *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.13.     Perform operational check of slat system                   *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.6.3.14.     Perform operational check of spoilers system               *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.6.4.        Remove/install components
A8.6.4.1.      Pitch trim control valve                                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.6.4.2.      Pitch trim motor                                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.6.4.3.      Pitch trim brake                                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.6.4.4.      Flap tandem control valve assembly                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.6.4.5.      Flap actuating cylinder assembly                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.6.4.6.      Spoiler actuator                                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.6.4.7.      Slat tandem directional control valve                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.6.4.8.      Slat actuator assembly                                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.6.4.9.      Slat lock valve assembly                                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.7.          CARGO RAMP/DOOR SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-52 series
A8.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.7.2.        Inspect system                                                   *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.7.3.        Troubleshoot cargo ramp/door system                              *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.7.4.        Perform cargo ramp / door operational check                *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.7.5.        Open/close troop door air deflector                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.        Remove/install components
A8.7.6.1.      Troop door air deflector actuating cylinder                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.2.      Troop door air deflector control valve                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.3.      Troop door clearance fairing assembly actuating cylinder                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.4.      Cargo door up lock assembly                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.5.      Cargo door up lock actuator cylinder                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.6.      Cargo door down lock actuator cylinder                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.7.      Cargo door actuating cylinder                                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.8.      Cargo door up lock shutoff valve                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.9.      Cargo ramp latch actuating cylinder                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.10.     Cargo Ramp Actuator                                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.11.     Hydraulic hand pump                                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.12.     Hand pump selector valve                                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.13.     Hand pump pressure gage                                                                                                         -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.14.     Ramp toe actuating cylinder                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.15.     CDS/ADS isolation valve                                                                                                         -            -        -                 -

                                                                               78
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 8
                                                      C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                          Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                       Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                              A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

A8.7.6.16.     CDS/ADS manifold                                                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.17.     CDS/ADS manifold repairs
A8.7.6.17.1.   Solenoid valve                                                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.17.2.   Solenoid cover                                                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.7.6.17.3.   Solenoid valve coil                                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.8.          CARGO HANDLING/MISSION SYSTEMS
               TR: TOs 1C-17A-2-41 series, 1C-17A-2-12JG-41 series
A8.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.8.2.        Inspect system                                                   *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.8.3.        Troubleshoot cargo handling /mission system                      *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.8.4.        Perform operational check of support / stab strut system   *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.8.5.        Perform CDS system operational check                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.8.6.        Perform operational check of tow release mechanism                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.8.7.        Perform operational check of parachute deployment
                                                                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
               mechanism
A8.8.8.        Service cargo winch                                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.8.9.        Service load equalization reservoir                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.9.          Remove/install components
A8.9.1.        Load equalization reservoir assembly                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.9.2.        Load equalization cylinder assembly                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.9.3.        Stab strut actuator                                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.9.4.        Reaction cylinder assembly                                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.9.5.        Stab strut control valve                                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.9.6.        Stab strut door actuator                                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.9.7.        Tow release mechanism extraction cylinder                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.9.8.        Tow Release Mechanism Jettison Cylinder                                                                                         -            -        -                 -
A8.9.9.        Drogue chute deploy cylinder                                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.10.         CREW ESCAPE & SAFETY SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-95 series
A8.10.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.10.2.       Inspect system                                                   *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.10.3.       Troubleshoot crew escape & safety system                         *                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.10.4.       Service ramp emergency egress hydraulic accumulator                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.10.5..      Perform operational check of ramp escape blow down         *
                                                                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
               system
A8.11.         Remove/install components
A8.11.1.       Emergency ramp bypass valve                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.11.2.       Ramp emergency egress hydraulic accumulator                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.11.3.       Ramp emergency egress accumulator service gauge/valve
A8.12.         FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-17A-2-26 series


                                                                               79
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 8
                                                       C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                       2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                       Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                    Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                           A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                        5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                    Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

A8.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.12.2.       Inspect system                                                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.12.3.       Troubleshoot fire protection system                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.12.4.       Operational check engine hydraulic shutoff ball valve                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.12.5.       Remove/install components
A8.12.5.1.     Engine hydraulic shutoff ball valve                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.13.         INSPECT/OVERHAUL/BENCH CHECK
               COMPONENTS
               TR: TOs 33DA21-512-1, 9H2-5-298-2, 9H8-30-217-2,
               9H8-14-319-2, 9H3-2-9-2, 9H3-3-117-2, 9H2-5-296-2,
               9H2-5-302-2, 9H1-4-4-2, 9H1-2-89-2, 4B1-2-1275,
               9H18-30-2, 4A4-55-2, 4A4-55-4, 16L-3-17-2, 4A4-81-2,
               4A4-52-2, 9H8-11-51-2, 9H8-11-51-4, 4A4-79-2,
               13C1-36-2, 9H2-134-2, 9H2-5-299-2, 9H2-300-2,
               9H2-5-297-2, 16L-4-17-2, 9H2-4-301-2, 9H2-5-301-2,
               34Y5-6-13-1, 35-1-322
A8.13.1.       Bench check linear actuator                                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.13.2.       Repair/overhaul linear actuator                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.13.3.       Bench check tow release mechanism cylinder                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.13.4.       Repair/overhaul tow release mechanism cylinder                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.13.5.       Bench check landing gear control valve                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.13.6.       Repair/overhaul landing gear control valve                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.13.7.       Bench check reservoir service selector valve                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.13.8.       Repair/overhaul reservoir service selector valve                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.13.9.       Bench check reservoir fill filter                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.13.10       Repair/overhaul reservoir fill filter                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.13.11.      Bench check return filter manifold                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.13.12.      Repair/overhaul return filter manifold                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.13.13.      Bench check AC motor pump filter                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.13.14.      Repair/overhaul AC motor pump filter                                                                                         -            -        -                 -
A8.13.15.      Bench check clearance fairing cylinder                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.13.16.      Repair/overhaul clearance fairing cylinder                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.13.17.      Bench check air deflector cylinder assembly                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.13.18.      Repair/overhaul air deflector cylinder assembly                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.13.19.      Bench check emergency egress accumulator                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.13.20.      Repair/overhaul emergency egress accumulator                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.13.21.      Bench check hydraulic brake accumulator                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.13.22.      Repair/overhaul hydraulic brake accumulator                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.13.23.      Bench check main landing gear brake assembly            *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.13.24.      Repair/overhaul main landing gear brake assembly        *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.13.25.      Bench check brake shuttle manifold                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.13.26.      Repair/overhaul brake shuttle manifold                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.13.27.      Bench check MLG shock strut                                                                                                  -            -        -                 -


                                                                            80
                                                                                                                                                           Attachment 8
                                                     C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                    Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                        A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                     5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                 Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

A8.13.28.      Repair/overhaul MLG shock strut cylinder                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.13.29.      Bench check MLG shimmy damper                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.13.30.      Repair/overhaul MLG shimmy damper                                                                                         -            -        -                 -
A8.13.31.      Bench check MLG retract cylinder                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.13.32.      Repair/overhaul MLG retract cylinder                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.13.33.      Bench check MLG down lock cylinder                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.13.34.      Repair/overhaul MLG down lock cylinder                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.13.35.      Bench check NLG ground sensor strut                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.13.36.      Repair/overhaul NLG ground sensor strut                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.13.37.      Bench check NLG steering swivel                                                                                           -            -        -                 -
A8.13.38.      Repair/overhaul NLG steering swivel                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.13.39.      Bench check NLG bypass bracket                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.13.40.      Repair/overhaul NLG bypass bracket                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.13.41.      Bench check NLG retract cylinder                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.13.42.      Repair/overhaul NLG retract cylinder                                                                                      -            -        -                 -
A8.13.43.      Bench check NLG down lock cylinder                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.13.44.      Repair/overhaul NLG down lock cylinder                                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.13.45.      Bench check NLG lower steering swivel                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.13.46.      Repair/overhaul NLG lower steering swivel                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.13.47.      Bench check NLG steering bypass valve                                                                                     -            -        -                 -
A8.13.48.      Repair/overhaul NLG steering bypass valve                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.13.49.      Bench check NLG relief valve                                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.13.50.      Repair/overhaul NLG relief valve                                                                                          -            -        -                 -
A8.13.51.      Bench check cargo winch                              *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.13.52.      Repair/overhaul cargo winch                          *                                                                    -            -        -                 -
A8.13.53.      Bench check actuator stabilizer strut assembly                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.13.54.      Repair/overhaul actuator stabilizer strut assembly                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.13.55.      Bench check drogue chute deploy cylinder                                                                                  -            -        -                 -
A8.13.56.      Repair/overhaul drogue chute deploy cylinder                                                                              -            -        -                 -
A8.13.57.      Bench check cargo door down lock cylinder                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.13.58.      Repair/overhaul cargo door down lock cylinder                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.13.59.      Bench check cargo door up lock cylinder                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.13.60.      Repair/overhaul cargo door up lock cylinder                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.13.61.      Bench check cargo door down latch assembly                                                                                -            -        -                 -
A8.13.62.      Repair/overhaul cargo door down latch assembly                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.13.63.      Bench check cargo door up lock assembly                                                                                   -            -        -                 -
A8.13.64.      Repair/overhaul cargo door up lock assembly                                                                               -            -        -                 -
A8.13.65.      Bench check ramp toe cylinder                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.13.66.      Repair/overhaul ramp toe cylinder                                                                                         -            -        -                 -
A8.13.67.      Bench check ramp latch linear cylinder                                                                                    -            -        -                 -

                                                                         81
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 8
                                                    C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                            Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                         Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A            B                  C
                                                                                                                                             3 Level      5-Level            7 Level
                                                                             5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                           (1)                (2)
                                                                                         Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course        CDC      Course             CDC

A8.13.68.      Repair/overhaul ramp latch linear cylinder                                                                                        -            -        -                 -
A8.13.69.      Bench check NLG steering cylinder                                                                                                 -            -        -                 -
A8.13.70.      Repair/overhaul NLG steering cylinder                                                                                             -            -        -                 -
A8.13.71.      Bench check MLG integral jack hose assembly                                                                                       -            -        -                 -
A8.13.72.      Repair MLG integral jack hose assembly                                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.13.73.      Bench check fan thrust reverse duct actuator hand pump                                                                            -            -        -                 -
A8.13.74.      Repair/overhaul fan thrust reverse duct actuator hand pump                                                                        -            -        -                 -




                                                                                 82
                                                                                                                                                                Attachment 8
     C-17 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                 83
                                     Attachment 8
                                                  C-130 E/H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS


                                                                             2. Core        3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                            To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                              Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                               (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A         B      A           B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                    3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                               5        7      Tng         Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                               Start      Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 9 (C-130 E/H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 9 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 9 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by C-130 personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
A9.1.           AIRCRAFT GROUND HANDLING
                TR: TOs 1C-130H-2-05JG-00-1, 1C-130H-2-12JG-20-1,
                1C-130H-2-09JG-00-1, 1C-130H-2-10JG-00-1,
                1C-130H-2-12JG-10-1
A9.1.1.         Ground aircraft or equipment                                  *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.1.2.         Lubricate aircraft components                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A9.1.3.         Tow aircraft
A9.1.3.1.       Tow brake operator                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A9.1.3.2.       Tow team supervisor                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A9.1.3.3.       Tow vehicle operator                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A9.1.4.         Perform wing/tail walker duties                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.1.5.         Install and remove ground safety devices                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A9.1.6.         Perform refuel/defuel team member duties
A9.1.6.1.       SPR operator                                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A9.1.6.2.       Flight deck panel operator                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A9.1.6.3.       Supervisor                                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A9.1.6.4.       Concurrent servicing supervior                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A9.1.7.         Open and close engine cowling                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A9.1.8.         Remove/install aircraft access panels                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.1.9.         Use interphone                                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A9.1.10.        Marshall aircraft                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A9.1.11.        Perform aircraft egress                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A9.1.12.        Foreign object damage (FOD)/dropped object prevention
                                                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
                program (DOPP) in and around aircraft
A9.1.13.        Apply/Disconnect external electrical power                    *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.1.14.        Apply/disconnect external hydraulic power                     *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.1.15.        Jack and level aircraft
                TR: TO 1C-130H-07JG-00-1
A9.1.15.1.      Safety                                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A9.1.15.2.      Manual                                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A9.1.15.3.      Manifold                                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A9.1.15.4.      Perform jacking team member duties                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A9.2.           MAIN HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEM
                TR: TOs 1C-130H-2-29GS-00-1, 1C-130H-6 series,
                TO 1C-130H-2-29JG-00-1 series, 1C-130H-2-29FI-00-1,
                1C-130H-2-12JG-10-2, 1C130H-205JG-00-1
A9.2.1.         Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A9.2.2.         Inspect system                                                      *                                                                   -           -        -            -

                                                                                   84
                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 9
                                                C-130 E/H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core       3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                             Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                 A         B      A           B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                   3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                              5        7      Tng         Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                              Start      Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A9.2.3.        Perform operational check                                     *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.2.4.        Troubleshoot system                                                 *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.2.5.        Service accumulators                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A9.2.6.        Service and drain reservoir                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A9.2.7.        Flush hydraulic system                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A9.2.8.        Deactivate/Reactivate Aux/utility systems                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A9.2.9.        Deactivate/Reactivate Booster system                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.       Remove/install components
               TR: TO 1C-130H-2-29JG-00-1-1,
               TO 1C-130H-2-29JG-00-1-2
A9.2.10.1.     Auxiliary hydraulic pump                                      *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.2.     Hydraulic engine driven pump                                  *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.3.     Engine hydraulic filter and V-ring                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.4.     Engine hydraulic suction shutoff valve                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.5.     Engine hydraulic pressure shutoff valve                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.6.     Hydraulic suction boost pump                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.7.     Accumulators (utility, booster, auxiliary)                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.8.     Ground test valve                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.9.     Auxiliary system oil cooler                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.10.    Auxiliary system hand pump                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.11.    System reservoir (Utility, Booster, Aux)                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A9.2.10.12.    Check valves, filters, pressure switches, and relief valves                                                                             -           -        -            -
A9.3.          MAIN LANDING GEAR (MLG) AND NOSE LANDING
               GEAR (NLG) SYSTEMS
               TR: TO 1C-130-2-32GS-00-1, TO 1C-130H-6 series,
               TO 1C-130H-2-32FI-00-1, TO 1C-130H-2-32JG-10-1,


A9.3.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A9.3.2.        Inspect system                                                      *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.3.3.        Perform operational check (position A)                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A9.3.4.        Perform operational check (position B)                        *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.3.5.        Troubleshoot system                                                 *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.3.6.        Repack MLG strut                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A9.3.7.        Repack NLG strut                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A9.3.8.        Service MLG strut                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A9.3.9.        Service NLG strut                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A9.3.10.       Remove/install components
               TR: TO 1C-130H-2-32JG-10-1, TO 1C-130H-2-32JG-20-1,
               130H-2-12JG-10-2, 1C-130H-2-32JG-40-1, TO 1-1A-8
A9.3.10.1.     Landing gear control valve                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A9.3.10.2.     MLG hydraulic motor                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A9.3.10.3.     NLG retract actuator                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -


                                                                                  85
                                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 9
                                               C-130 E/H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                     Tasks                                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                         A         B      A           B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                      5        7      Tng         Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                      Start      Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A9.3.10.4.     NLG uplock                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A9.3.10.5.     Fuses, flow regulators, LRUs                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A9.4.          NOSE WHEEL STEERING SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-130-2-32GS-00-1, TO 1C-130H-6 series,
               TO 1C-130H-2-32JG-50-1, TO 1C-130-2-32FI-00-1
A9.4.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A9.4.2.        Inspect system                                              *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.4.3.        Perform operational check                             *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.4.4.        Troubleshoot system                                         *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.4.5.        Remove/Install components
A9.4.5.1.      Nose wheel steering actuator                          *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.4.5.2.      Nose wheel steering control valve                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A9.4.5.3.      Nose wheel steering manifolds                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.4.5.4.      Nose wheel steering swivels                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A9.5.          WHEEL BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-130H-2-32GS-00-1, TO 1C-130H-6 series,
               TO 1C-130-2-32 JG-40-1, TO 1C-130-2-32FI-00-1,


A9.5.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A9.5.2.        Inspect system                                              *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.5.3.        Perform operational check                             *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.5.4.        Troubleshoot system                                         *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.5.5.        Bleed brake system                                    *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.5.6.        Remove/install components
A9.5.6.1.      Brake anti-skid valve                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A9.5.6.2.      Brake selector valve                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A9.5.6.3.      Power brake control valve                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A9.5.6.4.      Fuses, swivels, LRUs                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A9.5.6.5.      Accumulator (normal, emergency)                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A9.5.6.6.      Brake assembly                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A9.6.          FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-130H-2-27GS-00-1, TO 1C-130H-6 series,
               TO 1C-130-27JG series, TO 1C-130-27FI-00-1
A9.6.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A9.6.2.        Inspect system                                              *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.6.3.        Perform operational check                             *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.6.4.        Troubleshoot System                                         *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.6.5.        Remove/install components
               TR: TO 1C-130H-2-27JG-10-1, TO 1C-130H-2-27JG-20-1,
               TO 1C-130H-2-27JG-30-1, TO 1C-130H-2-27JG-50-1-2,
               TO 1C-130H-2-27JG-50-1-1
A9.6.5.1.      Aileron boost pack                                    *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.6.5.2.      Rudder boost pack                                     *                                                                         -           -        -            -

                                                                          86
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 9
                                                 C-130 E/H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core       3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                     Tasks                                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                         A         B      A           B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                      5        7      Tng         Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                      Start      Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A9.6.5.3.      Elevator boost pack                                   *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.6.5.4.      Flap gearbox brake (4-hole, 8-hole)                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A9.6.5.5.      Flap symmetry brake                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A9.6.5.6.      Flap motor                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A9.6.5.7.      Shutoff valves, pressure reducers, diverter valves                                                                              -           -        -            -
A9.6.5.8.      Line repairable units (LRUs)                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A9.6.6.        Reseal components
               TR: TO 1C-130H-2-27JG-10-1, TO 1C-130H-2-27JG-20-1,
               130H-2-27JG-30-1
A9.6.6.1.      Rudder boost pack rod ends                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A9.6.6.2.      Aileron Boost Pack Rod Ends                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A9.6.6.3.      Elevator boost pack rod ends                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A9.7.          CARGO DOOR AND RAMP SYSTEM
               TR: 1C-130H-2-52GS-00-1, TO 1C-130H-6 series
               TO 1C-130H-2-52JG-30 series, 1C-130H-2-52FI-00-1
A9.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A9.7.2.        Inspect system                                              *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.7.3.        Perform operational check                             *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.7.4.        Troubleshoot system                                         *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.7.5.        Deactivate/reactivate cargo door system                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.7.6.        Remove/install components
               TR: TO 1C-130H-2-52JG-30-2,
               TO 1C-130H-2-52JG-30-1
A9.7.6.1.      Ramp actuator                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.7.6.2.      Ramp lock actuator                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A9.7.6.3.      Cargo door manifold                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A9.7.6.4.      Door actuator                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.7.6.5.      Cargo door snubber                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A9.8.          INSPECT/OVERHAUL/BENCH CHECK EQUIPMENT
               TR: TO 9H2 Series, TO 4B1-2-1003, TO 9H8 series,
               TO 4S series
A9.8.1.        Bench check actuators                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A9.8.2.        Repair/overhaul actuators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A9.8.3.        Repair/overhaul accumulators                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A9.8.4.        Bench Check accumulators                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A9.8.5.        Bench check MLG wheel brake                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A9.8.6.        Repair/overhaul MLG wheel brake                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A9.8.7.        Bench check solenoid valves                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A9.8.8.        Repair/overhaul solenoid valves                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A9.8.9.        Bench check servo control valves                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A9.8.10.       Repair/overhaul servo control valves                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A9.8.11.       Repair / overhaul relief valves                                                                                                 -           -        -            -


                                                                          87
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 9
                                                C-130 E/H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                    Tasks                                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                    Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                        A         B      A           B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                     5        7      Tng         Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                     Start      Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A9.8.12.       Bench Check relief valves                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A9.9.          INFLIGHT REFUELING SYSTEM
               TR: 6A10-3-4, 1C-130H-2-28GS-00-1, 1C-130A-6WC-13,
               1C-130A-6WC-15, 1C-130H-2-28JG-20-2,
               1C-130H-2-28FI-00-1-2, 1C-130H-2-12JG-10-1
A9.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A9.9.2.        Inspect system                                             *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.9.3.        IFR hose extension/retraction                        *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.9.4.        Perform reel response checkout                       *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.9.5.        Perform operational check                            *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.9.6.        Troubleshoot system                                        *                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.9.7.        Service accumulators                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A9.9.8.        Service surge suppressor                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A9.9.9.        Perform timing of the inflight refueling reel                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A9.9.10.       Adjust limit switches                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A9.9.11.       Remove / install components
A9.9.11.1.     Hose reel                                            *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.9.11.2.     Refueling hose                                       *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.9.11.3.     Coupling and drogue                                  *                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.9.11.4.     Guillotine                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A9.9.11.5.     Servo positioner                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A9.9.11.6.     Accumulators                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.9.11.7.     Latch cylinder                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A9.9.11.8.     Filters, pressure switch, valves 6,7,14,26                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A9.9.11.9.     Limit switches                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A9.9.11.10.    Time delay relay                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A9.10.         Repair / overhaul
               TR: 6A10-3-4
A9.10.1.       Hose Reel Assy.                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A9.11.         Bench check components
               TR: 6A10-3-4
A9.11.1.       Hose Reel Assy.                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A9.12.         UNIVERSAL AERIAL REFUELING RECEIVER
               SLIPWAY INSTALLATION (UARRSI)
               TR: 1C-130H-2-28JG series
A9.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A9.12.2.       Inspect                                                        *                                                               -           -        -            -
A9.12.3.       Perform operational Check                             *                                                                        -           -        -            -
A9.12.4.       Troubleshoot                                                *                                                                  -           -        -            -
A9.12.5.       Remove/Install Components
A9.12.5.1.     Selector Valves                                                                                                                -           -        -            -


                                                                         88
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 9
                                                 C-130 E/H TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core       3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                    Tasks                                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                    Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                        A         B      A           B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                     5        7      Tng         Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                     Start      Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A9.12.5.2.     Shuttle valves                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A9.12.5.3.     Fuses                                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A9.12.5.4.     Check valves                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A9.13.         AC-130H GUNSHIP SPECIFIC COMPONENTS
               REMOVE / INSTALL
               TR: TO 1C-130(A)H- 2-29JG series
A9.13.1.       Ground test isolation valve                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A9.13.2.       Emergency system pump                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A9.13.3.       40/105 mm trainable gun mount (TGM) filter                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A9.13.4.       Power switching valve                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A9.13.5.       Pressure transfer valve                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A9.13.6.       Utility isolation valve                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A9.13.7.       Utility priority valve                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A9.14.         AC-130U GUNSHIP SPECIFIC COMPONENTS
               REMOVE/INSTALL
               TR: TO 1C-130(A)H- 2-29JG SERIES
A9.14.1.       Power transfer valve                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A9.14.2.       25mm ammo storage handling system (ASHS) isolation
                                                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
               valve
A9.14.3.       40/105 mm Isolation valve                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A9.14.4.       40/105 mm trainable gun mount (TGM) filter                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A9.14.5.       105 mm ext/ret selector valve                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A9.14.6.       25 mm TGM isolation valve                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A9.14.7.       25 mmTGM filter                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A9.14.8.       Rudder/elevator isolation valve                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A9.14.9.       Radar/brake isolation valve                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A9.14.10.      Booster priority valve                                                                                                         -           -        -            -




                                                                         89
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 9
                                                   C-130 J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core       3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                               To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                 A     B       A          B         C          D          E          A        B        C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level   5-Level   7 Level
                                                                             5     7       TngStart   TngComp   Traine     Traine     Certifi                        (1)       (2)
                                                                                                                e          r          er         Course    CDC       Course    CDC
                                                                                                                Initials   Initials   Initials

ATTACHMENT 10 (C-130J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 10 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 10 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by C-130J personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
A10.1.          AIRCRAFT GENERAL/GROUND HANDLING
                TR: TO 1C-130J-2-00JG-00-1, TO 1C-130J-2-12JG-20-1,
                TO 1C-130J-2-09JG-10-1
A10.1.1.        Ground aircraft or equipment                                  *                                                                      -         -         -       -
A10.1.2.        Lubricate aircraft components                                                                                                        -         -         -       -
A10.1.3.        Tow aircraft
A10.1.3.1.      Tow Brake Operator                                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.1.3.2.      Tow Team Supervisor                                                                                                                  -         -         -       -
A10.1.3.3.      Tow Vehicle Operator                                                                                                                 -         -         -       -
A10.1.4.        Perform wing/tail walker duties                                                                                                      -         -         -       -
A10.1.5.        Install and remove ground safety devices                                                                                             -         -         -       -
A10.1.6.        Perform refuel/defuel team member duties
A10.1.6.1.      SPR operator                                                                                                                         -         -         -       -
A10.1.6.2.      Flight deck panel operator                                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.1.6.3.      Supervisor                                                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.1.6.4.      Concurrent servicing supervior                                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.1.7.        Open and close engine cowling                                 *                                                                      -         -         -       -
A10.1.8.        Remove/install aircraft access panels                         *                                                                      -         -         -       -
A10.1.9.        Use interphone                                                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.1.10.       Marshall aircraft                                                                                                                    -         -         -       -
A10.1.11.       Perform aircraft egress                                       *                                                                      -         -         -       -
A10.1.12.       Foreign object damage (FOD) prevention in and around
                                                                                                                                                     -         -         -       -
                aircraft
A10.1.13.       Perform dropped object prevention program (DOPP)
                                                                                                                                                     -         -         -       -
                inspection
A10.1.14.       Apply/Disconnect external electrical power                    *                                                                      -         -         -       -
A10.1.15.       Apply/Disconnect external hydraulic power                     *                                                                      -         -         -       -
A10.1.16.       Electronic circuit breaker (ECB) manipulation
                                                                              *                                                                      -         -         -       -
                using CNBP or CNI-MU
A10.1.17.       Applying, disconnecting external air conditioning                                                                                    -         -         -       -
A10.1.18.       Jack or level aircraft
A10.1.18.1.     Safety                                                                                                                               -         -         -       -
A10.1.18.2.     Manual                                                                                                                               -         -         -       -
A10.1.18.3.     Manifold                                                                                                                             -         -         -       -
A10.1.18.4.     Perform jacking team member duties                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.2.          PORTABLE MAINTENANCE AID (PMA)/DATA
                TRANSFER AND DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEM (DTADS)
                TR: TO 31S5-4-2834-1

                                                                                  90
                                                                                                                                                            Attachment 10
                                                  C-130 J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                           2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                           Tasks                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                               A    B    A          B         C          D          E          A        B        C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level   5-Level   7 Level
                                                                           5    7    TngStart   TngComp   Traine     Traine     Certifi                        (1)       (2)
                                                                                                          e          r          er         Course    CDC       Course    CDC
                                                                                                          Initials   Initials   Initials

A10.2.1.       Operational Fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -         -       -
A10.2.2.       Maintenance initialization and shutdown                                                                                         -         -         -       -
A10.2.3.       Aircraft maintenance using the PMA                                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.2.4.       Aircraft maintenance using DTADS                                                                                                -         -         -       -
A10.2.5.       Aircraft mode loading procedures                                                                                                -         -         -       -
A10.2.6.       Bench mode loading procedures                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.3.         SYSTEM INTEGRATION AND DISPLAY
               TR: TO 1C-130J-2-46GS-00-1
A10.3.1.       System integration and display fundamentals                                                                                     -         -         -       -
A10.3.2.       Mission computer fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.3.3.       Bus interface (BIU) and bus adapter unit (BAU)                                                                                  -         -         -       -
A10.3.4.       Communication/navigation electronic circuit breaker panel
                                                                                                                                               -         -         -       -
               (CNBP) fundamentals
A10.3.5.       Avionics management unit (AMU) fundamental                                                                                      -         -         -       -
A10.3.6.       Heads down display (HDD) fundamental                                                                                            -         -         -       -
A10.3.7.       Heads up display (HUD) fundamentals                                                                                             -         -         -       -
A10.3.8.       Turn on HDD to facilitate other maintenance                                                                                     -         -         -       -
A10.3.9.       Turn on HUD to Facilitate Other Maintenance                                                                                     -         -         -       -
A10.4.         COMMUNICATION/NAVIGATION/INTEGRATION
               MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CNI-MS)
               TR: TO 1C-130J-2-48GS-00-1
A10.4.1.       Communication/Navigation/Integration System
                                                                                                                                               -         -         -       -
               fundamentals
A10.4.2.       Communication/Navigation/Integration Management
                                                                                                                                               -         -         -       -
               System (CNI-MS) fundamentals
A10.5.         ADVISORY, CAUTION, AND WARNING SYSTEM
               (ACAWS)
               TR: TO 1C-130J-2-31GS-00-2
A10.5.1.      Advisory, caution, and warning system (ACAWS
                                                                                                                                               -         -         -       -
              fundamentals
A10.5.2.       Advisory, caution, and warning system (ACAWS)
                                                                                                                                               -         -         -       -
               messages fundamentals
A10.6.         MAIN HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-130J-2-29GS-00-1, TO 1C-130J-6,
               TO 1C-130J-2-29FI-00-1, TO 1C-130J-2-29JG-10-1,
               TO 1C-130J-2-29JG-20-1, TO 1C-130J-2-12JG-10-2,
               TO 1C-130J-2-00JG-00-1, TO 1C-130J-2-29JG series, TO
               1C-130J-2-29JG-30-1
A10.6.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                        -         -         -       -
A10.6.2.       Inspect system                                                   *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.6.3.       Troubleshoot system                                              *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.6.4.       Perform Utility/Booster operational check                   *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.6.5.       Perform Auxiliary operational check                         *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.6.6.       Service accumulators                                                                                                            -         -         -       -

                                                                               91
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 10
                                                  C-130 J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                              Tasks                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                              Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A    B    A          B         C          D          E          A        B        C
                                                                                                                                              3 Level   5-Level   7 Level
                                                                              5    7    TngStart   TngComp   Traine     Traine     Certifi                        (1)       (2)
                                                                                                             e          r          er         Course    CDC       Course    CDC
                                                                                                             Initials   Initials   Initials

A10.6.7.       Service and drain reservoirs                                   *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.6.8.       Flush hydraulic system                                                                                                             -         -         -       -
A10.6.9.       Deactivate/reactivate Aux/Utility system                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.6.10.      Deactivate/reactivate booster system                                                                                               -         -         -       -
A10.6.11.      Bleed Utility/Booster System                                   *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.6.12.      Bleed Auxiliary Hydraulic System                               *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.      Remove/install components
A10.6.13.1.    Hydraulic engine driven pump                                   *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.2.    Engine pump isolation or suction check valve                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.3.    Hydraulic pressure shutoff valve                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.4.    Suction shutoff valve                                                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.5.    High pressure filter assembly and element                                                                                          -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.6.    Utility/Booster system Relief Valves                                                                                               -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.7.    Utility/Booster system filter assembly and element
                                                                                                                                                  -         -         -       -
               (Return, Case Drain)
A10.6.13.8.    Reservoirs (Utility, Booster, Auxiliary)                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.9.    Utility, Booster and Auxiliary vent line filter assembly and
                                                                                                                                                  -         -         -       -
               filter element
A10.6.13.10.   Utility/Booster hydraulic suction boost pump                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.11.   Accumulators (Utility, Booster)                                                                                                    -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.12.   Auxiliary hydraulic pump                                       *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.13.   Auxiliary system filter assembly and element (Pressure,
                                                                              *                                                                   -         -         -       -
               Return)
A10.6.13.14.   Auxiliary system hand pump                                                                                                         -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.15.   Ground test valve                                                                                                                  -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.16.   Check valves, gage, etc.                                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.17.   Pressure transducer (Utility, Booster and Auxiliary)                                                                               -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.18.   Engine pump low pressure warning switch                                                                                            -         -         -       -
A10.6.13.19.   Utility/Booster suction boost pump low pressure warning
                                                                                                                                                  -         -         -       -
               switch
A10.7.         MAIN LANDING GEAR (MLG) AND NOSE
               LANDING GEAR (NLG) SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-130J-2-32GS-00-1, TO 1C-130J-6 series,
               TO 1C-130J-2-32FI-00-1, TO 1C-130J-2-32JG-30-1,
               TO 1C-130J-2-32JG-30-2, TO 1C-130J-2-12JG-10-2,
               TO 1C-130J-2-32JG-10-1,
A10.7.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.7.2.       Inspect system                                                      *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.7.3.       Troubleshoot system                                                 *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.7.4.       Perform operational check (position B)                         *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.7.5.       Perform operational check (position A)                                                                                             -         -         -       -
A10.7.6.       Leak Check of Landing Gear Shock Struts                                                                                            -         -         -       -


                                                                                  92
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 10
                                                   C-130 J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                  Tasks                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                  Information Provided
                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A    B    A          B         C          D          E          A        B        C
                                                                                                                                  3 Level   5-Level   7 Level
                                                                  5    7    TngStart   TngComp   Traine     Traine     Certifi                        (1)       (2)
                                                                                                 e          r          er         Course    CDC       Course    CDC
                                                                                                 Initials   Initials   Initials

A10.7.7.       Service landing gear struts                        *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.7.8.       Repack MLG strut                                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.7.9.       Repack NLG strut                                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.7.10.      Remove/install components
A10.7.10.1.    Landing gear selector valve                                                                                            -         -         -       -
A10.7.10.2.    MLG hydraulic motor                                                                                                    -         -         -       -
A10.7.10.3.    Controllable bypass valve                                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.7.10.4.    NLG actuator                                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.7.10.5.    NLG uplock                                                                                                             -         -         -       -
A10.7.10.6.    Flow regulators, shuttle valves, LRUs                                                                                  -         -         -       -
A10.7.10.7.    NLG emergency extension valve                                                                                          -         -         -       -
A10.8.         NOSE WHEEL STEERING SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-130J-2-32GS-00-1, TO 1C-130J-6 series,
               TO 1C-130J-2-32FI-00-1, TO 1C-130J-2-32JG-50-1
A10.8.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                               -         -         -       -
A10.8.2.       Inspect system                                          *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.8.3.       Troubleshoot system                                     *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.8.4.       Perform operational check                          *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.8.5.       Remove/install components
A10.8.5.1.     Nose wheel steering actuator                       *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.8.5.2.     Nose wheel steering control valve                                                                                      -         -         -       -
A10.8.5.3.     Nose wheel steering manifold                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.8.5.4.     NLG Steering Swivel                                                                                                    -         -         -       -
A10.9.         WHEEL BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-130J-2-32GS-00-1, TO 1C-130J-6,
               TO 1C-130J-2-32FI-00-1, TO 1C-130J-2-32JG-40-1
A10.9.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                               -         -         -       -
A10.9.2.       Inspect system                                          *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.9.3.       Troubleshoot system                                     *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.9.4.       Perform normal/emergency operational check         *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.9.5.       Operational checkout of MLG parking brake                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.9.6.       Repair brake swivel                                                                                                    -         -         -       -
A10.9.7.       Bleed brake system                                 *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.9.8.       Remove/install components
A10.9.8.1.     Anti-skid control valve                                                                                                -         -         -       -
A10.9.8.2.     Brake assembly                                                                                                         -         -         -       -
A10.9.8.3.     Accumulators (normal, emergency)                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.9.8.4.     Brake selector valve                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.9.8.5.     Brake pressure transducer                                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.9.8.6.     Brake control valve                                                                                                    -         -         -       -

                                                                      93
                                                                                                                                             Attachment 10
                                                  C-130 J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                            2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                            Tasks                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                            Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                A    B    A          B         C          D          E          A        B        C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level   5-Level   7 Level
                                                                            5    7    TngStart   TngComp   Traine     Traine     Certifi                        (1)       (2)
                                                                                                           e          r          er         Course    CDC       Course    CDC
                                                                                                           Initials   Initials   Initials

A10.9.8.7.     Parking brake valve                                                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.9.8.8.     Brake hose restraints                                                                                                            -         -         -       -
A10.9.8.9.     Fuses, swivels, shuttle valves                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.10.        FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-130J-2-27GS-00-1, TO 1C-130J-6,
               TO 1C-130J-2-27FI-00-1, TO 1C-130J-2-27JG-10-1,
               TO 1C-130J-2-27JG-20-1, TO 1C-130J-2-27JG series,
               TO 1C-130J-2-27JG-30-1, TO 1C-130J-2-27JG-50-1-2,
               TO 1C-130J-2-27JG-50-2
A10.10.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -         -         -       -
A10.10.2.      Inspect system                                                    *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.10.3.      Troubleshoot system                                               *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.10.4.      Perform operational check                                    *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.10.5.      Flight control wind precautions                                                                                                  -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.      Remove / install components
A10.10.6.1.    Aileron boost pack                                           *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.2.    Aileron booster assembly filter element                                                                                          -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.3.    Aileron booster assembly shutoff valve                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.4.    Aileron booster assembly pressure transducer                                                                                     -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.5.    Aileron booster assembly pressure reducer                                                                                        -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.6.    Aileron booster assembly hydraulic panel, diverter valve,
                                                                                                                                                -         -         -       -
               or pressure reducer
A10.10.6.7.    Rudder boost pack                                            *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.8.    Rudder booster assembly filter element                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.9.    Rudder booster assembly shutoff valve                                                                                            -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.10.   Rudder booster assembly hydraulic panel, diverter valve or
                                                                                                                                                -         -         -       -
               pressure reducer
A10.10.6.11.   Rudder booster assembly pressure transducer, pressure
                                                                                                                                                -         -         -       -
               gage or snubber valve
A10.10.6.12.   Elevator boost pack                                          *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.13.   Elevator booster assembly filter element                                                                                         -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.14.   Elevator booster assembly shutoff valve                                                                                          -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.15.   Flap brake                                                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.16.   Flap motor                                                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.17.   Flap flow regulator                                                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.18.   Flap flow restrictor                                                                                                             -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.19.   Flap surge damping valve                                                                                                         -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.20.   Flap selector valve                                                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.21.   Flap asymmetry                                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.10.6.22.   Flap emergency brake valve                                                                                                       -         -         -       -




                                                                                94
                                                                                                                                                       Attachment 10
                                                   C-130 J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                      Tasks                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                          A    B    A          B         C          D          E          A        B        C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level   5-Level   7 Level
                                                                      5    7    TngStart   TngComp   Traine     Traine     Certifi                        (1)       (2)
                                                                                                     e          r          er         Course    CDC       Course    CDC
                                                                                                     Initials   Initials   Initials

A10.11.        CARGO DOOR & RAMP SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-130J-2-52GS-00-1, TO 1C-130J-6,
               TO 1C-130J-2-52FI-00-1, TO 1C-130J-2-52JG-30 series,
               TO 1C-130J-2-52JG-30-1, TO 1C-130J-2-52JG-30-2
A10.11.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.11.2.      Inspect system                                              *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.11.3.      Troubleshoot system                                         *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.11.4.      Perform operational check                              *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.11.5.      Deactivate/Reactivate cargo door system                *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.11.6.      Open and close aft cargo door/ramp using auxiliary
                                                                      *                                                                   -         -         -       -
               hydraulic system electrically driven pump
A10.11.7.      Open and close aft cargo door/ramp using auxiliary
               hydraulic system hand pump                             *                                                                   -         -         -       -

A10.11.8.      Remove / install components
A10.11.8.1.    Cargo door actuator                                                                                                        -         -         -       -
A10.11.8.2.    Cargo door pressure reducer valve                                                                                          -         -         -       -
A10.11.8.3.    Cargo door and ramp control manifold valve                                                                                 -         -         -       -
A10.11.8.4.    Cargo door uplock                                                                                                          -         -         -       -
A10.11.8.5.    Cargo ramp flow regulator                                                                                                  -         -         -       -
A10.11.8.6.    Ramp actuator                                                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.11.8.7.    Cargo ramp hook actuating cylinder                                                                                         -         -         -       -
A10.12.        INSPECT / OVERHAUL/BENCH CHECK EQUIPMENT
               TR: TO 9H2 Series, TO 4B1-2-1003, TO 9H8 series,
               TO 4S series,
A10.12.1.      Bench check actuators                                                                                                      -         -         -       -
A10.12.2.      Repair/overhaul actuators                                                                                                  -         -         -       -
A10.12.3.      Repair/overhaul accumulators                                                                                               -         -         -       -
A10.12.4.      Bench Check accumulators                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.12.5.      Bench check MLG wheel brake                                                                                                -         -         -       -
A10.12.6.      Repair/overhaul MLG wheel brake                                                                                            -         -         -       -
A10.12.7.      Bench check solenoid valves                                                                                                -         -         -       -
A10.12.8.      Repair/overhaul solenoid valves                                                                                            -         -         -       -
A10.12.9.      Bench check servo control valves                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.12.10.     Repair/overhaul servo control valves                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.12.11.     Repair/overhaul relief valves                                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.12.12.     Bench Check relief valves                                                                                                  -         -         -       -
A10.13.        HC/MC-130J SPECIFIC COMPONENTS AERIAL
               REFUELING POD SYSTEM
               TR: 6A10-2-4-3, 1C-130(H/M)J-2-44GS-00-1,
               130(H/M)J-44FI-00-1, C-130(H/M)J-2-44JG series,
               1C-130 (H/M)J-2-12JG-10-1, 1C-130(H/M)J-2-12JG-10-2
A10.13.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                   -         -         -       -


                                                                          95
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 10
                                                   C-130 J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                     Tasks                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                         A    B    A          B         C          D          E          A        B        C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level   5-Level   7 Level
                                                                     5    7    TngStart   TngComp   Traine     Traine     Certifi                        (1)       (2)
                                                                                                    e          r          er         Course    CDC       Course    CDC
                                                                                                    Initials   Initials   Initials

A10.13.2.       Inspect system                                            *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.13.3.       Ground extension/retraction of Refueling Hose        *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.13.4.       Perform Operational Checkout                         *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.13.5.       Perform Reel Response Checkout                       *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.13.6.       Troubleshoot system                                       *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.13.7.       Service Accumulators                                                                                                     -         -         -       -
A10.13.8.       Service Surge Suppressor                                                                                                 -         -         -       -
A10.13.9.       Perform Timing of the Aerial Refueling Reel                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.13.10.      Test/Adjust Hose Reception Latch Release Mechanism                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.13.11.      Perform leak check of Refueling Pod fuel system                                                                          -         -         -       -
A10.13.12.      Adjust limit switches                                                                                                    -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.      Remove / install components
A10.13.13.1.    Hose Reel                                            *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.2.    Refueling Hose                                       *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.3.    Coupling and Drogue                                  *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.4.    Guillotine and Stowage Tube                                                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.5.    Servo Positioner                                                                                                         -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.6.    Accumulators                                                                                                             -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.7.    Latch Cylinder                                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.8.    Filters, Pressure Switch, Valves 6,7,14,26                                                                               -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.9.    Limit switches                                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.10.   Time delay relay                                                                                                         -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.11.   Pod Interconnect valve                                                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.12.   Reel Control valve                                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.13.13.13.   Priority valve                                                                                                           -         -         -       -
A10.14.         Repair / overhaul
                TR: TO 6A10-2-4-3
A10.14.1.       Hose reel assembly                                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.15.         Bench check components
                TR: TO 6A10-2-4-3
A10.15.1.       Hose reel assembly                                                                                                       -         -         -       -
A10.16.         HC/MC-130J SPECIFIC COMPONENTS UNIVERSAL
                REFUELING RECEIVER SLIPWAY
                INSTALLATION (UARRSI)
                TR: 1C-130(H/M)J-2-28GS-00-1, 1C-130(H/M)J-2-28FI-
                130(H/M)J-2-28JG series
A10.16.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                 -         -         -       -
A10.16.2.       Inspect                                                   *                                                              -         -         -       -
A10.16.3.       Perform operational check                            *                                                                   -         -         -       -
A10.16.4.       Troubleshoot                                              *                                                              -         -         -       -


                                                                         96
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 10
                                               C-130 J TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                              4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Tasks                                                           To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                          Information Provided
                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A    B    A          B         C          D          E          A        B        C
                                                                                                                          3 Level   5-Level   7 Level
                                                          5    7    TngStart   TngComp   Traine     Traine     Certifi                        (1)       (2)
                                                                                         e          r          er         Course    CDC       Course    CDC
                                                                                         Initials   Initials   Initials

A10.16.5.      Remove / install Components
A10.16.5.1.    Selector valves                                                                                                -         -         -       -
A10.16.5.2.    Shuttle valves                                                                                                 -         -         -       -
A10.16.5.3.    Fuses                                                                                                          -         -         -       -
A10.16.5.4.    Check valves                                                                                                   -         -         -       -




                                                              97
                                                                                                                                     Attachment 10
                                                   KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                         To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A    B        A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                              5     7      Tng         Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                           Start      Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 11 (KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 11 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 11 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by KC-135 personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
A11.1.          AIRCRAFT GROUND HANDLING
                TR: TOs 1C-135(K)R-2-2JG series, 1C-135(K)R-2-6JG-1
A11.1.1.        Ground aircraft or equipment                                  *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.1.2.        Install/Remove boom sling                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.1.3.        Tow or move aircraft
                                                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.1.3.1.      Tow brake operator                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.1.3.2.      Tow team supervisor                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.1.3.3.      Tow vehicle operator                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.1.4.        Perform wing/tail walker duties IAW applicable
                                                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
                TOs/checklist
A11.1.5.        Install and remove ground safety devices                      *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.1.6.        Perform refuel/defuel team member duties IAW
                applicable TOs/checklist
A11.1.6.1.      Panel operator                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.1.6.2.      Supervisor                                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A11.1.7.        Open and close engine cowling                                 *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.1.8.        Remove/install aircraft access panels                         *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.1.9.        Use interphone                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.1.10.       Marshall Aircraft                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.1.11.       Perform aircraft egress                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.1.12.       Foreign object damage (FOD)/dropped object prevention
                                                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
                program (DOPP) in and around aircraft
A11.1.13.       Apply/disconnect external electrical power                    *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.1.14.       Apply/disconnect external hydraulic power                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.1.15.       Jack and level aircraft
A11.1.15.1.     Safety                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.1.15.2.     Manual                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.1.15.3.     Manifold                                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.1.15.4.     Perform jacking team member duties                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.2.          HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
                TR: TOs 1C-135(K)R-2-13 series, 1C-135(K)R-2-13GA-1
A11.2.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.2.2.        Inspect system                                                     *                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.2.3.        Perform operational check                                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.2.4.        Troubleshoot system                                                *                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.2.5.        Drain hydraulic system                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.2.6.        Flush hydraulic system                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.2.7.        Service accumulator                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -

                                                                                  98
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 11
                                                   KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                          Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                              A     B      A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                            3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                       Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A11.2.8.       Service reservoir                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.2.9.       Reservoir pressurization system checkout                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.2.10.      Pressurize/Depressurize Left And Right Hydraulic Systems   *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.2.11.      Remove / install Components
A11.2.11.1.    Auxiliary hydraulic pump                                   *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.2.11.2.    Engine driven hydraulic pump                               *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.2.11.3.    Auxiliary hydraulic motor                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A11.2.11.4.    Supply shutoff valve                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.2.11.5.    Filters                                                    *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.2.11.6.    Reservoirs                                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.2.11.7.    Reservoir air pressure regulator                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.2.11.8.    Bleed air check valves                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A11.2.11.9.    Reservoir quantity transmitter                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.2.11.10.   Accumulator                                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.3.         LANDING GEAR SYSTEM AND COMPONENTS
               TR: TOs 1C-135(K)R-2-7JG series, 1C-135(K)R-2-2JG-2,
               1C-135(K)R-2-7GA-1
A11.3.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.3.2.       Perform operational check of emergency system                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.3.3.       Landing gear retraction (position "A")                           *                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.3.4.       Landing gear retraction (position "B")                     *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.3.5.       Landing gear simulated retraction (position “A”)                 *                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.3.6.       Landing gear simulated retraction (position “B”)           *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.3.7.       Inspect                                                          *                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.3.8.       Troubleshoot system                                              *                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.3.9.       Service struts                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.3.10.      Shock strut seal replacement                                     *                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.3.11.      Reseal nose gear trunion swivel                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.      Remove / install components
A11.3.12.1.    Main gear actuator                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.3.12.2.    Main gear side strut actuator                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.3.    Main gear door actuator                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.4.    Main gear door shut off valve                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.5.    Main gear door control valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.6.    Nose gear actuator                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.3.12.7.    Nose gear lock actuator                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A13.3.12.8.    Nose gear lock retention actuator                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.9.    Gear selector valve                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.10.   Gear sequence valve                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.11.   Nose gear door control valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -


                                                                               99
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 11
                                                   KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                    2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                    Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                        A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                       3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                     5     7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                  Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A11.3.12.12.   Nose gear shock strut inner cylinder                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.13.   Nose gear door actuator                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.14.   Nose gear door shut off valve                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.3.12.15.   Main gear lock actuator                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.4.         NOSE WHEEL STEERING SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-135(K)R-2-7JG series, 1C-135(K)R-2-7GA-1
A11.4.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.4.2.       Perform operational check                            *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.4.3.       Inspect system                                             *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.4.4.       Steering system checkout and bleeding                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.4.5.       Troubleshoot system                                        *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.4.6.       Remove / install components
A11.4.6.1.     Steering actuator                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A11.4.6.2.     Steering actuator seal                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.4.6.3.     Steering metering valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.4.6.4.     Steering disconnect valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.5.         WHEEL BRAKE SYSTEM AND COMPONENTS
               TR: TO 1C-135(K)R-2-7JG series, 1C-135(K)R-2-7GA-1
A11.5.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.5.2.       Perform operational check                            *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.5.3.       Inspect system                                             *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.5.4        Troubleshoot system                                        *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.5.5.       Brake wear check                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.5.6.       Bleed brake system                                   *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.5.7.       Service reserve brake accumulator                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A11.5.8.       Remove / install components
A11.5.8.1.     Brake assembly                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.5.8.2.     Reserve brake accumulator                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.5.8.3.     Anti-skid control valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.5.8.4.     Brake metering valve                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A11.6.         FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS AND COMPONENTS
               TR: TO 1C-135(K)R-2-8JG series, 1C-135(K)R-2-8GA-1
A11.6.1.       Spoiler system
A11.6.1.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.6.1.2.     Perform operational check                            *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.6.1.3.     Inspect system                                             *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.6.1.4.     Troubleshoot system                                        *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.6.1.5.     Remove / install components
A11.6.1.5.1.   Spoiler actuator                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.6.1.5.2.   Spoiler swivel joints                                                                                                       -           -        -            -


                                                                         100
                                                                                                                                                    Attachment 11
                                                       KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                  2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                  Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                               Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                      A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                   5     7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A11.6.1.5.3.    Spoiler bypass valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.6.1.5.4.    Spoiler control valve                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.6.1.5.5.    Spoiler control valve filter element                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.6.2.        Wing flap system
A11.6.2.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.6.2.2.      Perform operational check                         *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.6.2.3.      Inspect system                                          *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.6.2.4.      Troubleshoot system                                     *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.6.2.5.      Remove / install components
A11.6.2.5.1.    Leading edge flap hydraulic actuator                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.6.2.5.2.    Leading edge flap control valve                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.6.2.5.3.    Wing flap control valve                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.6.2.5.4.    Main wing flap control valve filter element                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.6.2.5.5.    Wing flap motor                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.        Rudder control system
A11.6.3.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.2.      Perform operational check                         *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.3.      Inspect system                                          *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.4.      Troubleshoot system                                     *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.5.      Service rudder accumulator                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.6.      Remove / install components
A11.6.3.6.1.    Power control unit                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.6.2.    Rudder accumulator                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.6.3.    Rudder pressure transmitter                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.6.4.    Rudder compensator                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.6.5.    Rudder shutoff valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.6.6.    Rudder pressure control valve                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.6.7.    Rudder pressure reducer                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.6.8.    Rudder pressure relief valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.6.9.    Rudder flutter damper                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.6.3.6.10.   Rudder tab damper                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A11.7.          COPILOT'S INSTRUMENT POWER SYSTEM
                TR: TOs 1C-135(K)R-2-10JG series,
                1C-135(K)R-2-10GA-1
A11.7.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.7.2.        Perform operational check                         *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.7.3.        Inspect system                                          *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.7.4.        Troubleshoot system                                     *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.7.5.        Remove / install components
A11.7.5.1.      Power generator control valve                                                                                            -           -        -            -


                                                                       101
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 11
                                                   KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                      Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                   Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                          A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                       5     7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                    Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A11.7.5.2.      Power generator motor/pump                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.8.          INFLIGHT REFUELING SYSTEM AND COMPONENTS
                TR: TOs 1C-135(K)R-2-6JG series, 1C-135(K)R-2-6GA-1
A11.8.1.        Air refueling boom
A11.8.1.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.2.      Perform operational check                             *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.3.      Inspect system                                              *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.4.      Air refueling boom nozzle assembly checkout                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.5.      Adjust boom cable tension                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.6.      Drain boom                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.7.      Troubleshoot system                                         *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.      Remove / install components
A11.8.1.8.1.    Boom fork assembly                                          *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.2.    Boom surge boot                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.3.    Boom sliding gland seal assembly                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.4.    Boom hoist cable                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.5.    Boom recoil assembly                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.6.    Boom brushes                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.7.    Boom chain and cable assembly                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.8.    Ring spring assembly                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.9.    Disassemble/reassemble boom fork assembly                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.10.   Boom assembly                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.1.8.11.   Boom nozzle assembly                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.8.2.        Ruddervator control and lock system
A11.8.2.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.8.2.2.      Perform operational check                             *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.2.3.      Inspect system                                              *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.2.4.      Troubleshoot system                                         *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.2.5.      Rig ruddervator control system                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.8.2.6.      Rig ruddervator lock system                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.8.2.7.      Remove / install components
A11.8.2.7.1.    Ruddervator torque tube bearings                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.8.2.7.2.    Ruddervator quadrant                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.8.3.        Boom stowage latch control system
A11.8.3.1.      Perform operational check                             *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.3.2.      Inspect system                                              *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.3.3.      Troubleshoot system                                         *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.3.4.      Remove / install components
A11.8.3.4.1.    Boom latch hook                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.8.3.4.2.    Boom latch eye                                                                                                               -           -        -            -

                                                                           102
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 11
                                                   KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                     2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                     Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                  Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                         A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                        3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                      5     7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                   Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A11.8.4.        Boom indicating system
A11.8.4.1.      Perform operational check                            *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.4.2.      Inspect system                                             *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.4.3.      Troubleshoot system                                        *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.4.4.      Indicating system adjustment (elevation/telescope/
                                                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
                azimuth)
A11.8.4.5.      Remove / install components
A11.8.4.5.1.    Position transmitters
                                                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.8.4.5.2.    Elevation control unit
                                                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.8.4.5.3.    Telescope control unit
                                                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.8.4.5.4.    Azimuth control units                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.8.4.5.5.    Position indicators                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.8.5.        Air refueling electrical system
A11.8.5.1.      Signal system checkout                               *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.5.2.      Signal coil resistance check                         *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.5.3.      Receiver pilot director light system checkout        *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.5.4.      Fuel bypass control valve switch adjustment                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.8.5.5.      Troubleshoot system                                        *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.5.6.      Remove / install component
A11.8.5.6.1.    Fuel dump limit switch                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.        Air refueling hydraulic system
A11.8.6.1.      Perform operational check                            *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.2.      Inspect system                                             *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.3.      Troubleshoot system                                        *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.4.      Emergency hoist system operational check                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.      Remove/install components
A11.8.6.5.1.    Sighting door control valve                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.2.    Boom accumulator                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.3.    Fuel bypass control valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.4.    Fuel dump actuator                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.5.    Sighting door actuator                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.6.    Telescope control valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.7.    Ruddervator power control unit                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.8.    Ruddervator power unit filter element                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.9.    Hoist control valve                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.10.   Hoist tension motor/hoist motor                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.11.   Telescope motor                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.12.   Hoist drum unit                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.13.   Fuel dump control valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -


                                                                          103
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 11
                                                    KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                      Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                   Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                          A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                       5     7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                    Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A11.8.6.5.14.   Telescope drive gear box                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.8.6.5.15.   Hoist gear box                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.8.7.        Air refueling supply and fuel dumping system
A11.8.7.1.      Perform operational check                             *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.8.7.2.      Boom fuel flowmeter system checkout                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.8.7.3.      Inspect system                                              *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.7.4.      Troubleshoot system                                         *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.7.5.      Air refueling pump checkout                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.8.7.6.      Remove / install components
A11.8.7.6.1.    Boom fuel flowmeter transmitter                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.8.7.6.2.    Flowmeter power supply                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.8.7.6.3.    Boom fuel pressure regulator                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.8.7.6.4.    Boom fuel bypass valve                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.        Air refueling receiver (ARR) system
A11.8.8.1.      Perform operational check                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.2.      Inspect system                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.3.      Troubleshoot system                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.4.      Refuel manifold pressure checkout                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.5.      Adjust slipway door hydraulic actuator                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.6.      Adjust slipway door limit switch(es)                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.7.      Service accumulator                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.8.      Remove / install components
A11.8.8.8.1.    Manifold                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.8.2.    Receptacle sliding valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.8.3.    Slipway door control valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.8.4.    Slipway door hydraulic actuator                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.8.5.    Slipway door limit switch(es)                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.8.6.    Accumulator                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.8.8.8.7.    Slipway door shuttle valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.9.          CARGO DOOR SYSTEM AND COMPONENTS
                TR: TOs 1C-135(K)R-2-2JG series, 1C-135(K)R-2-2GA-1
A11.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.9.2.        Perform operational check                             *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.9.3.        Inspect system                                              *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.9.4.        Troubleshoot system                                         *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.9.5.        Remove / install components
A11.9.5.1.      Cargo door actuator                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.9.5.2.      Cargo door pump                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.9.5.3.      Cargo door control panel                                                                                                     -           -        -            -



                                                                           104
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 11
                                                     KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                             Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                    A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                   3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                 5     7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                              Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A11.10.         QUICK START APU SYSTEM
                TR: TOs 1C-135(K)R-2-16JG series,
                1C-135(K)R-2-16GA-1
A11.10.1.       Perform operational check                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.10.2.       Inspect system                                        *                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.10.3.       Bleed system                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A11.10.4.       Remove / install components
A11.10.4.1.     Accumulator                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.10.4.2.     Isolation valve                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A11.10.4.3.     APU hydraulic manifold                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.10.4.4.     APU door actuator                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.11.         MULTI-POINT REFUELING SYSTEM
                TR: TOs 1C-135(K)R-2-6JG series,
                1C-135(K)R-2-6GA-1, 6A3-4-12N
A11.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.11.2.       Perform operational check                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.11.3.       Inspect system                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.11.4.       Troubleshoot system                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.11.5.       Built in test (bite) check                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.11.6.       Pod draining                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A11.11.7.       Trailing and retracting supervisor                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.11.8.       Trailing and retracting team member                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.11.9.       POD scheduled inspections
                TR: 28-87 Series
A11.11.9.1.     Cyclic                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.11.9.2.     Before flight (preflight, 2B)                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.11.9.3.     After flight (2A)                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.11.9.4.     Home station check (HSC)                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.11.9.5.     Pod fault diagnosis                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.      Remove / install components
A11.11.10.1.    Refueling pod                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.2.    Pylon                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.3.    Rear fairing                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.4.    Hinged nose fairing                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.5.    Hose                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.6.    Hose jettison unit                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.7.    Coupling                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.8.    Drogue                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.9.    Intercostal                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.10.   Ram air turbine (RAT)                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.11.   Dummy spinner cone                                                                                                     -           -        -            -


                                                                     105
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 11
                                                   KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                      2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                      Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                   Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                          A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                         3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                       5     7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                    Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A11.11.10.12.   Digital refueling control unit (DRCU)                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.13.   Power supply                                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.14.   Motor drive unit                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.15.   Hose position sensor                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.16.   DC motor                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.17.   Parking brake (linear actuator)                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.18.   Pawl assembly (parking brake)                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.19.   Hose drum drive unit                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.20.   Gear box assembly                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.21.   Tensator drive                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.22.   Fuel pump                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.23.   Vane pump                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.11.10.24.   Control valve                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.12.         BOOM DROGUE ADAPTER (BDA)
                TR: TOs 1C-135(K)R-2-6JG series, 1C-135(K)R-2-6GA-1
A11.12.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A11.12.2.       Perform operational check                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.12.3.       Inspect system                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.12.4.       Troubleshoot system                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.12.5.       Remove / install components
A11.12.5.1.     Drogue/adapter                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.13.         INSPECT/OVERHAUL/BENCH CHECK EQUIPMENT
                TR: TO 9H1 Series, TO 4B1-4-264, TO 4BA5-6-3,
                TO 6A4-3-13, TO 9H2-5-90-3, TO 9H2-2-30-3,
                TO 9H2-4-104-3, TO 9H8 Series, TO 6A15 Series,
                TO 6R9 Series, TO 9H2 Series, 9H8 Series,
                TO 9H2-2-34-3
A11.13.1.       Repair/overhaul accumulator                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.13.2.       Bench check accumulator                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A11.13.3.       Repair/overhaul brake assembly                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A11.13.4.       Bench check brake assembly                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.13.5.       Repair/overhaul boom nozzle assembly                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A11.13.6.       Bench check boom nozzle assembly                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.13.7.       Repair/overhaul spoiler actuator                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A11.13.8.       Bench check spoiler actuator                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A11.13.9.       Repair/overhaul MLG door actuator                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.13.10.      Bench check MLG door actuator                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.13.11.      Repair/overhaul leading edge flap actuator                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A11.13.12.      Bench check leading edge flap actuator                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.13.13.      Repair/overhaul control valve                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.13.14.      Bench check control valve                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A11.13.15.      Repair/overhaul boom drogue adapter kit                                                                                      -           -        -            -

                                                                           106
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 11
                                                KC-135 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                             2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                             Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                          Information Provided
                                                                                                                                           (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                              5     7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                           Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A11.13.16.     Bench check boom drogue adapter kit                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A11.13.17.     Repair/overhaul shut-off valve                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.13.18.     Bench check shut-off valve                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A11.13.19.     Repair/overhaul actuators                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.13.20.     Bench check actuators                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A11.13.21.     Repair/overhaul hydraulic fuse                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A11.13.22.     Bench check hydraulic fuse                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A11.13.23.     Repair/overhaul relief valves                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A11.13.24.     Bench check relief valves                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A11.13.25.     Repair/overhaul MLG actuator (walking beam)                                                                          -           -        -            -
A11.13.26.     Bench check MLG actuator (walking beam)                                                                              -           -        -            -




                                                                  107
                                                                                                                                             Attachment 11
                                                      E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                               2. Core     3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                               Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                            Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                    A    B         A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                  3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                                5     7       Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                              Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 12 (E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 12 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 12 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by E-3 personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
A12.1.          COMMON MAINTENANCE PRACTICES
                TR:
A12.1.1.        Aircraft safe for maintenance                                   *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.1.2.        Ground aircraft / equipment                                     *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.1.3.        Install and remove ground safety devices                        *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.1.4.        Remove / install aircraft access panels                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A12.1.5.        Use interphone                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A12.1.6.        Apply / disconnect external hydraulic power                     *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.1.7.        Apply / disconnect external electrical power                    *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.2.          HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
                TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A12.2.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.2.2.        Perform operational check                                       *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.2.3.        Service accumulator                                             *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.2.4.        Service reservoir                                               *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.2.5.        Troubleshoot malfunctions                                            *                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.2.6.        Inspect system components                                            *                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.2.7.        Bleed hydraulic system                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.2.8.        Drain hydraulic system                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.2.9.        Flush hydraulic system                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.2.10.       Remove / install components
A12.2.10.1.     Auxiliary pumps                                                 *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.2.10.2.     Engine pump                                                     *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.2.10.3.     Valves                                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.2.10.4.     Filters                                                         *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.2.10.5.     Accumulators                                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A12.2.10.6.     Reservoir                                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.2.10.7.     Indicating devices                                              *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.2.11.       Repair / overhaul components
A12.2.11.1.     Valves                                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.2.11.2.     Accumulators                                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A12.2.12.       Bench check components
A12.2.12.1      Valves                                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.2.12.2.     Accumulators                                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A12.2.12.3.     Perform adjustments                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A12.3.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
                TR: Applicable aircraft TOs

                                                                               108
                                                                                                                                                             Attachment 12
                                                   E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                              2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                              Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                         Information Provided
                                                                                                                                          (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                  A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                               3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                               5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                           Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A12.3.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A12.3.2.       Perform operational check                      *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.3.3.       Inspect system components                            *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.3.4.       Troubleshoot malfunctions                            *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.3.5.       Perform adjustments                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A12.3.6.       Remove / install components
A12.3.6.1.     Main gear actuators                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A12.3.6.2.     Main gear side strut actuator                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A12.3.6.3.     Main gear door actuator                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.3.6.4.     Nose gear door actuator                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.3.6.5.     Nose gear lock retention actuator                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A12.3.6.6.     Nose gear actuator                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A12.3.6.7.     Gear selector valve                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A12.3.6.8.     Gear sequence valve                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A12.3.6.9.     Nose gear door control valve                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A12.3.7.       Repair / overhaul components
A12.3.7.1.     Actuators                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A12.3.7.2.     Valves                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.3.8.       Bench check components
A12.3.8.1.     Actuators                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A12.3.8.2.     Valves                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.4.         NOSE WHEEL STEERING SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable Aircraft TOs
A12.4.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A12.4.2.       Perform operational check                      *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.4.3.       Inspect System Components                            *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.4.4.       Troubleshoot Malfunctions                            *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.4.5.       Remove / install components
A12.4.5.1.     Steering Actuator                              *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.4.5.2.     Steering Metering Valve                        *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.4.5.3.     Steering Disconnect Valve                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A12.4.5.4.     Bleed system                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A12.4.6.       Repair / overhaul components
A12.4.6.1.     Steering Actuator                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A12.4.6.2.     Steering Metering Valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.4.7.       Bench check components
A12.4.7.1.     Steering Actuator                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A12.4.7.2.     Steering Metering Valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.5.         WHEEL BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs

                                                              109
                                                                                                                                          Attachment 12
                                               E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A12.5.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A12.5.2.       Perform operational check                  *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.5.3.       Service components                         *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.5.4.       Inspect system components                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.5.5.       Troubleshoot malfunctions                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.5.6.       Remove / install components
A12.5.6.1.     Accumulators                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.5.6.2.     Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A12.5.6.3.     Brake assemblies                           *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.5.6.4      Bleed system                               *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.5.7.       Repair / overhaul components
A12.5.7.1.     Accumulators                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.5.7.2.     Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A12.5.7.3.     Brake assemblies                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.5.8.       Bench check components
A12.5.8.1.     Accumulators                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.5.8.2.     Valves                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A12.5.8.3.     Brake Assemblies                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.6.         FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A12.6.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A12.6.2.       Perform operational check                  *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.6.3.       Inspect system components                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.6.4.       Troubleshoot malfunctions                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.6.5.       Spoiler
A12.6.5.1.     Remove / install components
A12.6.5.1.1.   Actuator                                   *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.6.5.1.2.   Bypass valve                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.6.5.1.3.   Control valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A12.6.5.1.4.   Swivel joints                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A12.6.5.1.5.   Modular package                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A12.6.5.1.6.   Bleed system                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.6.5.2.     Repair / overhaul components
A12.6.5.2.1.   Actuator                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A12.6.5.2.2.   Valve                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A12.6.5.3.     Bench check components
A12.6.5.3.1.   Actuator                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A12.6.5.3.2.   Valve                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A12.6.6.       Wing flap
A12.6.6.1.     Remove / install Component

                                                          110
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 12
                                               E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A12.6.6.1.1.   Leading edge actuator                      *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.6.6.1.2.   Leading edge control valve                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A12.6.6.1.3.   Control valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A12.6.6.1.4.   Control valve filter                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A12.6.6.1.5.   Flap motor                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A12.6.6.2.     Repair / overhaul components
A12.6.6.2.1.   Actuator                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A12.6.6.2.2.   Valve                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A12.6.6.3.     Bench check components
A12.6.6.3.1.   Actuator                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A12.6.6.3.2.   Valve                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A12.6.7.       Rudder
A12.6.7.1.     Remove / install Component
A12.6.7.1.1.   Power control unit                         *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.6.7.1.2.   Pressure transmitter                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A12.6.7.1.3.   Compensator                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.6.7.1.4.   Shut off valve                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A12.6.7.1.5.   Pressure limiter control unit                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A12.6.7.1.6.   Control tab damper                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.6.7.1.7.   Flutter damper                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A12.7.         AIR REFUELING RECEIVER SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A12.7.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A12.7.2.       Service components                         *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.7.3.       Inspect system components                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.7.4.       Troubleshoot malfunctions                        *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.7.5.       Rig / adjust ARR system                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A12.7.6.       Remove / install components
A12.7.6.1      Toggle actuator                            *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.7.6.2.     Slipway door actuator                      *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.7.6.3.     Accumulator                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.7.6.4.     Toggle control valve                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A12.7.6.5.     Toggle shuttle valve                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A12.7.6.6.     Slipway door shuttle valve                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A12.7.6.7.     Slipway door control valve                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A12.7.6.8.     Dual shuttle valve                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.7.6.9.     Bleed system                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.7.7.       Repair / overhaul components
A12.7.7.1.     Toggle actuator                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A12.7.7.2.     Slipway door actuator                                                                                           -           -        -            -

                                                          111
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 12
                                               E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A12.7.8.        Bench check components
A12.7.8.1.      Toggle actuator                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.7.8.2.      Slipway door actuator                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A12.8.          AUXILLARY POWER UNIT START SYSTEM
                TR:
A12.8.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A12.8.2.        Inspect system                                  *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.8.3.        Troubleshoot system                             *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.8.4.        Perform operational check                 *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.8.5.        Service components                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.8.6.        Remove / install components
A12.8.6.1.      Accumulator                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.8.6.2.      Isolation valve                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A12.8.6.3.      Hydraulic manifold                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.8.6.4.      Door control valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.8.6.5.      Door actuator                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A12.8.6.6.      Selector valve                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A12.8.6.7.      Hand pump                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A12.8.6.8.      Door shuttle valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.8.6.9.      Bleed system                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A12.8.7.        Repair / overhaul component
A12.8.7.1.      Accumulator                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.8.7.2.      Actuator                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A12.8.7.3.      Valves                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A12.8.8.        Bench Check components
A12.8.8.1.      Accumulator                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.8.8.2.      Actuator                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A12.8.8.3.      Valves                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A12.9.          ANTENNA PEDESTAL (ROTODOME SYSTEM)
                TR:
A12.9.1.        Operational fundamentals                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A12.9.2.        Inspect system                                  *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.9.3.        Troubleshoot system                             *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.9.4.        Perform operational check                 *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A12.9.5.        Service components                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.9.6.        Rotodome entry                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A12.9.7.        Flush lub system                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A12.9.8.        Magnetic plug inspection                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A12.9.9.        Rotodome 7lvl FOD inspection                    *                                                              -           -        -            -
A12.9.10.    Remove / install components

                                                          112
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 12
                                               E-3 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core   3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Tasks                                                                      To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A     B       A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                           5    7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A12.9.10.1.    Drive assembly                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A12.9.10.2.    Drive motor                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A12.9.10.3.    Speed control valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A12.9.10.4.    Scavange pump                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A12.9.10.5.    Filter                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A12.9.10.6.    Shutoff valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -




                                                          113
                                                                                                                                      Attachment 12
                                        FIGHTER/ATTACK TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core     3. Certification For OJT                                        4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                         To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A     B        A         B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                               5     7      Tng        Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                            Start     Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 13 (FIGHTER/ATTACK TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 13 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 13 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by Fighter personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
A13.1.          HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
                TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.1.1.        Repair / overhaul components
A13.1.1.1.      Valves                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.1.1.2.      Manifolds                                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A13.1.1.3.      Reservoirs                                                    *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.1.1.4.      Accumulators                                                  *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.1.2.        Bench check components
A13.1.2.1.      Valves                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.1.2.2.      Manifold                                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A13.1.2.3.      Reservoirs                                                    *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.1.2.4.      Accumulators                                                  *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.          LANDING GEAR SYSTEMS
                TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.2.1.        Repair / overhaul components
A13.2.1.1.      NLG retract actuator                                          *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.1.2.      MLG retract actuator                                          *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.1.3.      NLG down lock actuator                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.2.1.4.      MLG down lock actuator                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.2.1.5.      NLG door actuator                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A13.2.1.6.      MLG door actuator                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A13.2.1.7.      Swivels                                                       *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.1.8.      NLG strut                                                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.1.9.      MLG strut                                                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.1.10.     Tension strut                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A13.2.2.        Bench check components
A13.2.2.1.      NLG retract actuator                                          *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.2.2.      MLG retract actuator                                          *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.2.3.      NLG down lock actuator                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.2.2.4.      MLG down lock actuator                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.2.2.5.      NLG door actuator                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A13.2.2.6.      MLG door actuator                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A13.2.2.7.      Swivels                                                       *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.2.8.      NLG strut                                                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.2.9.      MLG strut                                                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.2.2.10.     Tension strut                                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A13.3.          NOSEWHEEL STEERING

                                                                                   114
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 13
                                      FIGHTER/ATTACK TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                     2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                     Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                 Information Provided
                                                                                                                                  (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References         A     B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                       3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                      5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                   Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.3.1.       Repair / overhaul components
A13.3.1.1.     Selector valve                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A13.3.1.2.     Manifold                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A13.3.1.3.     Actuator                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A13.3.1.4.     Control valve                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.3.2.       Bench check components
A13.3.2.1.     Selector valve                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A13.3.2.2.     Manifold                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A13.3.2.3.     Actuator                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A13.3.2.4.     Control valve
A13.4.         WHEEL BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.4.1.       Repair / overhaul components
A13.4.1.1.     Brake assemblies                      *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A13.4.1.2.     Shuttle valve                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.4.1.3.     Swivel                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.4.1.4.     Brake control valve                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A13.4.2.       Repair / overhaul components
A13.4.2.1.     Brake assemblies                      *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A13.4.2.2.     Shuttle valve                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.4.2.3.     Swivel                                *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A13.4.2.4.     Brake control valve                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A13.4.3.       Bench check components
A13.4.3.1.     Brake assemblies                      *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A13.4.3.2.     Shuttle valve                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.4.3.3.     Swivel                                *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A13.4.3.4.     Brake control valve                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A13.5.         FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.5.1.       Repair / overhaul components
A13.5.1.1.     Actuators                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A13.5.1.2.     Boost packs                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A13.5.1.3.     Manifolds                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A13.5.1.4.     PRCA/PDU                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A13.5.1.5.     Speed brake actuator                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A13.5.1.6.     Speed brake swivel                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A13.5.2.       Bench check components
A13.5.2.1.     Actuators                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A13.5.2.2.     Boost packs                                                                                                 -           -        -            -


                                                          115
                                                                                                                                    Attachment 13
                                        FIGHTER/ATTACK TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                            2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                            Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                        Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                A     B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                              3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                             5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                          Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A13.5.2.3.     Manifolds                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A13.5.2.4.     PRCA/PDU                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A13.5.2.5.     Speed brake actuator                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.5.2.6.     Speed brake swivel                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A13.5.2.7.     Aileron / rudder interconnect (ARI)                                                                                -           -        -            -
A13.6.         MISCELLANEOUS COMPONENTS
               TR: Applicable aircraft TOs
A13.6.1.       Repair / overhaul components
A13.6.1.1.     JFS hand pump                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.6.1.2.     Canopy hand pump                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A13.6.1.3.     Canopy actuator (F15C)                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A13.6.1.4.     Canopy actuator (F15D/E)                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A13.6.1.5.     Canopy accumulator                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A13.6.1.6.     Aerial refueling door actuator                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A13.6.2.       Bench check components
A13.6.2.1.     JFS hand pump                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A13.6.2.2.     Canopy hand pump                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A13.6.2.3.     Canopy actuator (F15C)                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A13.6.2.4.     Canopy actuator (F15D/E)                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A13.6.2.5.     Canopy accumulator                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A13.6.2.6.     Aerial refueling door actuator                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A13.7.         HYDRAULIC SHOP PRACTICES
               TR: Rosan Fittings 44H1-1-13 and
               Push Pull Tester Applicable Owners Manuals
A13.7.1.       Remove / install rosan fittings              *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A13.7.2.       Use Push Pull Tester                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A13.8.         HYDRAULIC TEST STAND
               TR: TO 33A2-2-51-1 and series
A13.8.1.       Operate                                      *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A13.8.2.       Maintain                                     *                                                                     -           -        -            -




                                                                 116
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 13
FIGHTER/ATTACK TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                117
                                       Attachment 13
                                                    KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                             2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                         4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                             Tasks                                                                         To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                  A     B       A          B         C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                              5     7      Tng         Tng     Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                           Start      Comp     Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 14 (KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 14 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 14 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by KC-10 personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
A14.1.          AIRCRAFT GROUND HANDLING
                TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-7, 2-9, 2-10, 2-12, 2-20
A14.1.1.        Ground aircraft or equipment                                  *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.1.2.        Lubricate aircraft components                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A14.1.3.        Tow aircraft                                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.1.4.        Perform wing/tail walker duties IAW applicable
                                                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
                TO/checklist
A14.1.5.        Install and remove ground safety devices                      *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.1.6.        Perform refuel/defuel team member duties IAW
                                                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
                TO/checklist
A14.1.7.        Open and close engine cowling                                 *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.1.8.        Remove/install aircraft access panels                         *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.1.9.        Use interphone                                                *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.1.10.       Marshall aircraft                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.1.11.       Perform aircraft egress                                       *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.1.12.       Foreign object damage (FOD)/dropped object
                                                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
                program (DOPP) in and around aircraft
A14.1.13.       Apply/disconnect external electrical power                    *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.1.14.       Apply/disconnect external hydraulic power                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.1.15.       Jack and level aircraft
A14.1.15.1.     Safety                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.1.15.2.     Manual                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.1.15.3.     Manifold                                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.1.15.4.     Perform jacking team member duties                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A14.2.          HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEMS
                TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-29
A14.2.1.        Main hydraulic system
A14.2.1.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.2.      Inspect system                                                      *                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.3.      Perform operational check                                     *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.4.      Operate main hydraulic system                                 *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.5.      Troubleshoot main hydraulic system                                  *                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.6.      Flush hydraulic system                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.7.      Service reservoir                                             *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.8.      Service accumulator                                           *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.      Remove / install components
A14.2.1.9.1     Engine driven pumps                                           *                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.2.    Accumulators                                                                                                                         -           -        -            -

                                                                                  118
                                                                                                                                                              Attachment 14
                                                      KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                            Information Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                     A    B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                  3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                 5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                              Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A14.2.1.9.3.    Air eliminators                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.4.    Engine and system manifold filters                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.5.    Engine hydraulic manifolds                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.6.    Hydraulic system manifolds                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.7.    Reservoirs                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.8.    Case drain bleed and check valves                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.9.    Flight control by-pass valves                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.10.   Hydraulic fire shutoff valves                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.11.   Maintenance isolation valves                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.12.   Pump bleed and auto prime valve                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.13.   Relief and by-pass valve                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.2.1.9.14.   System relief valve                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A14.2.2.        Auxiliary hydraulic system
A14.2.2.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.2.2.2.      Inspect system                                        *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.2.2.3.      Perform operational check                        *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.2.2.4.      Troubleshoot system                                   *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.2.2.5.      Remove / install components
A14.2.2.5.1.    Electric motor driven auxiliary pump             *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.2.2.5.2.    Reversible motor pump                            *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.2.2.5.3.    Motor pump shutoff valve                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.2.2.5.4.    Auxiliary pump manifold                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.2.2.5.5.    Reversible pump manifold                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.2.3.        Hydraulic Indication System
A14.2.3.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.2.3.2.      Inspect system                                        *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.2.3.3.      Perform operational check                        *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.2.3.4.      Troubleshoot system                                   *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.2.3.5.      Remove / install components
A14.2.3.5.1     Reservoir temperature sensor                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A14.2.3.5.2     Case drain high temperature switch                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.2.3.5.3.    Hydraulic quantity indicator                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A14.2.3.5.4.    Hydraulic quantity transmitter                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A14.3.          MAIN LANDING GEAR AND DOORS
                TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-32
A14.3.1.        Operate main gear doors                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.3.2.        Service main gear shock strut                    *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.3.3.        Service centerline gear shock strut              *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.3.4.        Repack / reseal components
A14.3.4.1.      Main gear shock strut                                                                                                 -           -        -            -

                                                                     119
                                                                                                                                               Attachment 14
                                                  KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                            2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                            Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                        Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 A    B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                              3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                             5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                          Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A14.3.4.2.     Centerline gear shock strut                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A14.4.         NOSE GEAR AND DOORS
               TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-32
A14.4.1.       Operate nose gear door                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.4.2.       Service nose gear shock strut                 *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.4.3.       Repack/Reseal nose gear shock strut           *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.5.         EXTENSION AND RETRACTION
               TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-32
A14.5.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A14.5.2.       Perform operational check                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A14.5.3.       Inspect system                                     *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.5.4.       Troubleshoot system                                *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.5.5.       Simulated Extension/Retraction                     *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.5.6.       Ground sensing                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.       Remove / install components
A14.5.7.1.     Main gear hydraulic interlock cylinder        *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.2.     Centerline gear control valve                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.3.     Landing gear selector valve                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.4.     Main gear down lock cylinder                  *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.5.     Main gear retract cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.6.     Main gear gland                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.7.     Main gear door cylinder                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.8.     Main gear door latch cylinder                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.9.     Nose gear retract cylinder                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.10.    Nose gear unlock cylinder                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.11.    Trim cylinder                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.12.    Trim cylinder relief valve                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.13.    Centerline gear retract cylinder                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.14.    Centerline gear unlock cylinder                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.5.7.15.    Centerline gear door links                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.6.         WHEELS AND BRAKES SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-10(K)A-2-32
A14.6.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A14.6.2.       Perform operational checkout                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.6.3.       Inspect system                                     *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.6.4.       Troubleshoot system                                *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.6.5.       Brake wear check                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A14.6.6.       Bleed brake system                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A14.6.7.       Remove / install components
A14.6.7.1.     Main wheel brakes                                                                                                  -           -        -            -


                                                                 120
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 14
                                                KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                          2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                          Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                      Information Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References               A    B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                            3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                           5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                        Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A14.6.7.2.     Brake valve actuator                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.6.7.3.     Brake system manifold and manifold check                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.6.7.4.     Dual brake control valve                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.7.         ANTI-SKID SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-32
A14.7.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.7.2.       Perform operational check                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A14.7.3.       Inspect system                                   *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.7.4.       Troubleshoot system                              *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.7.5.       Perform maintenance practices                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.7.6.       Remove / install components
A14.7.6.1.     Skid control manifold                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.7.6.2.     Fluid quantity limiter valves               *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.7.6.3.     Parking brake valves                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.7.6.4.     Skid control valves                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.8.         STEERING SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-32
A14.8.1.       Perform Operational System Check out        *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.8.2.       Inspect system                                   *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.8.3.       Troubleshoot system                              *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.8.4.       Remove / install components
A14.8.4.1.     Nose wheel steering cylinders               *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.8.4.2.     Steering manifold                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.8.4.3.     Steering by-pass valve                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A14.8.4.4.     Steering control valve                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A14.8.4.5.     Steering relief valve                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.8.4.6.     Steering gland                              *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.9.         FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS AND COMPONENTS
               TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-27
A14.9.1.       Aileron control system
A14.9.1.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.9.1.2.     Perform operational check                   *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.9.1.3.     Inspect system                                   *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.1.4.     Troubleshoot system                              *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.1.5.     Remove / install components
A14.9.1.5.1.   Aileron actuators                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.9.2.       Rudder control system
A14.9.2.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.9.2.2.     Perform operational check                   *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.9.2.3.     Inspect system                                   *                                                               -           -        -            -


                                                               121
                                                                                                                                         Attachment 14
                                                  KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                 2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                 Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                             Information Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                     A     B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                   3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                  5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                               Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A14.9.2.4.     Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.2.5.     Remove / install components
A14.9.2.5.1.   Rudder actuators                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A14.9.2.5.2.   Non-reversible motor pump compensator                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A14.9.2.5.3.   Non-reversible motor pump                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.2.5.4.   Motor operated shutoff valve                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.9.3.       Elevator control systems
A14.9.3.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.9.3.2.     Perform operational check                         *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.9.3.3.     Inspect system                                          *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.3.4.     Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.3.5.     Remove / install components
A14.9.3.5.1.   Elevator actuator                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.9.4.       Horizontal stabilizer
A14.9.4.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.9.4.2.     Perform operational check                         *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.9.4.3.     Inspect system                                          *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.4.4.     Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.4.5.     Remove / install components
A14.9.4.5.1.   Horizontal stabilizer hydraulic motor and brake                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.9.4.5.2.   Primary trim control valve                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.9.5.       Flaps
A14.9.5.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.9.5.2.     Perform operational check                         *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.9.5.3.     Inspect system                                          *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.5.4.     Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.5.5.     Remove / install components
A14.9.5.5.1.   Flap actuating cylinder                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A14.9.5.5.2.   Flap control valve                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.9.5.5.3.   Flap lock valve                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.9.6.       Spoiler
A14.9.6.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.9.6.2.     Perform operational check                         *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.9.6.3.     Inspect system                                          *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.6.4.     Troubleshoot System                                     *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.6.5.     Remove / install components
A14.9.6.5.1.   Spoiler drive servo                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.9.7.       Lift augmenting system
A14.9.7.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.9.7.2.     Perform operational check                         *                                                                     -           -        -            -

                                                                      122
                                                                                                                                                Attachment 14
                                                     KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                         2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                         Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             A     B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                          5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A14.9.7.3.      Inspect system                                                 *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.7.4.      Troubleshoot System                                            *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.7.5.      Remove / install components
A14.9.7.5.1.    Slat actuator                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A14.9.7.5.2.    Outboard slat balance relief valve                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.9.7.5.3.    Slat control valve                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.9.7.5.4.    Slat two speed valve                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A14.9.8.        Aileron and elevator dampers
A14.9.8.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.9.8.2.      Perform operational check                                *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.9.8.3.      Inspect system                                                 *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.8.4.      Troubleshoot System                                            *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.9.8.5.      Remove / install components
A14.9.8.5.1.    Aileron dampers                                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.9.8.5.2.    Elevator dampers                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.10.         INFLIGHT REFUELING SYSTEM / COMPONENTS
                TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-28-2, TO 1C-10K(A)-2-28
A14.10.1.       Air refueling (A/R) ancillary system
A14.10.1.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.10.1.2.     Perform operational check                                *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.1.3.     Inspect system                                                 *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.10.1.4.     Troubleshoot system                                            *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.10.1.5.     Remove / install components
A14.10.1.5.1.   Auxiliary reservoir                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.10.1.5.2.   Boom/drogue selector valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.1.5.3.   Pilot operated check valve                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.       Air refueling fuel system
A14.10.2.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.2.     Perform operational check                                *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.3.     Inspect system                                                 *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.4.     Troubleshoot system using fuel pressure control system         *
                                                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
                test set
A14.10.2.5.     Remove / install components
A14.10.2.5.1.   Boom and drogue fuel shutoff valve                       *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.5.2.   Hydraulic operated dual by-pass valve                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.5.3.   Fuel pump pressure control unit                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.5.4.   Fuel pressure indicator                                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.5.5.   Hydraulic servo motor                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.5.6.   Fuel pressure transducer                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.5.7.   Hydraulic servo control valve                                                                                                  -           -        -            -


                                                                              123
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 14
                                                  KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                               2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                               Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                           Information Provided
                                                                                                                                            (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                   A     B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                 3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                             Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A14.10.2.5.8.   A/R fuel flow rate indicator                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.5.9.   A/R fuel flow transmitter                      *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.2.5.10. A/R fuel flow power supply                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.       Boom and nozzle
A14.10.3.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.2.     Perform operational check                      *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.3.     Inspect system                                       *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.4.     Troubleshoot system                                  *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.5.     Use status test panel                          *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.6.     Use ARB test set                               *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.7.     Use nozzle tester                              *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.8.     Operate boom and nozzle                        *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.9.     Deploy boom for maintenance                    *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.10.    Extend boom                                    *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.11.    Lower boom for maintenance                     *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.12.    Raise boom after maintenance                   *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.13.    Retract boom                                   *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.    Remove / install components
A14.10.3.14.1. Boom                                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.2. Flexible fuel coupling                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.3. Preload bungees cylinder                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.4. Gimble                                                *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.5. ARB sliding fuel seal                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.6. Boom accelerometer                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.7. Elevator actuator                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.8. Rudder actuators (tandem)                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.9. Status test panel                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.10. Nozzle load sensor                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.11. Boom elevation and roll axis indication LVDT                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.12. Roll position transducer (DRVT)                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.13. Boom control unit                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.14. ARB control surfaces                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.15. Annunciator lights                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.16. Telescope servo motor                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.17. Boom position indicators                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.18. Boom signal amplifier                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.19. Boom signal coil                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.20. ARB stowage shock absorber                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.21. Boom hoist cable                               *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.22. Hookeye                                                                                                              -           -        -            -

                                                                    124
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 14
                                                   KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                                   2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                   Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                               Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                       A     B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                     3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                    5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                 Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A14.10.3.14.23. Latch                                                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.24. Hoist motor                                        *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.25. Tension motor                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.26. Boom hoist winch                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.27. Hoist winch linear actuator                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.28. Latch striker                                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.29. Pneumatic module (IDS)                             *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.30. Nozzle                                             *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.31. Recoil                                             *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.32. Boom elevator/roll controller                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.33. ARO and instructor's telescope controller                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.10.3.14.34. Inner fuel tube                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A14.10.4.       Hose and drogue system
A14.10.4.1.     Operational fundamentals                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A14.10.4.2.     Perform operational check                          *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.4.3.     Inspect system                                           *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.10.4.4.     Troubleshoot system using drogue coupling tester         *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.10.4.5.     Trail drogue                                       *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.4.6.     Rewind drogue                                      *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.4.7.     Drain drogue                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.10.4.8.     Remove / install components
A14.10.4.8.1.   Hose                                                                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.10.4.8.2.   Hose reel                                                *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.10.4.8.3.   Hose reel hydraulic components                     *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.11.         WING AIR REFUELING PODS
                TR: 1C-10K(A)-2-28
A14.11.1.       Operational fundamentals                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A14.11.2.       Perform operational check                          *                                                                     -           -        -            -
A14.11.3.       Inspect system                                           *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.11.4.       Troubleshoot system                                      *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.11.5.       Built in test (BITE) check                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.11.6.       Pod draining                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.11.7.       Deploy/stow hose                                                                                                         -           -        -            -
A14.12.         POD INSPECTIONS
                TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-28-WC
A14.12.1.       Cyclic                                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A14.12.2.       Home station check (HSC)                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A14.12.3.       Pod fault diagnosis                                      *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.       Remove / install components
A14.12.4.1.     Refueling pod                                                                                                            -           -        -            -

                                                                        125
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 14
                                                  KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                            2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                            Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                        Information Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                 A    B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                              3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                             5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                          Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A14.12.4.2.    Pylon                                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.3.    Rear fairing                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.4.    Nose fairing                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.5.    Hose                                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.6.    Hose jettison unit                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.7.    Coupling                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.8.    Drogue                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.9.    Ram air turbine (RAT)                                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.10    Dummy spinner cone                            *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.11.   Digital refueling control unit (DRCU)                                                                              -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.12.   Power supply                                                                                                       -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.13.   Motor drive unit                                                                                                   -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.14.   Hose position sensor                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.15.   DC motor                                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.16.   Parking brake (linear actuator)                                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.17.   Pawl assembly (parking brake)                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.18.   Hose drum drive unit                                                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.19.   Gear box assembly                                                                                                  -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.20.   Tensator drive                                *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.21.   Fuel pump                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.22.   Vane pump                                                                                                          -           -        -            -
A14.12.4.23.   Control valve                                                                                                      -           -        -            -
A14.13.        AIR REFUELING RECEIVER SYSTEM
               TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-28
A14.13.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A14.13.2.      Perform operational check                     *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.13.3.      Inspect system                                     *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.13.4.      Troubleshoot system using UARRSI tester            *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.13.5.      Remove / install components
A14.13.5.1.    UARRSI                                                                                                             -           -        -            -
A14.13.5.2.    Door control cable                                                                                                 -           -        -            -
A14.14         DOORS
               TR: TO 1C-10K(A)-2-52
A14.14.1.      Operational fundamentals                                                                                           -           -        -            -
A14.14.2.      Perform operational check                     *                                                                    -           -        -            -
A14.14.3.      Inspect                                            *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.14.4.      Troubleshoot system                                *                                                               -           -        -            -
A14.14.5.      Remove / install components
A14.14.5.1.    Cargo door actuator                                                                                                -           -        -            -
A14.14.5.2.    Cargo door latch actuator                                                                                          -           -        -            -

                                                                 126
                                                                                                                                           Attachment 14
                                               KC-10 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

                                                         2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                         Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                     Information Provided
                                                                                                                                      (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References              A    B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                           3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                          5     7      Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                       Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A14.14.5.3.    Cargo door hand pump                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.14.5.4.    Cargo door electric pump                                                                                        -           -        -            -
A14.14.5.5.    Cargo door reservoir                                                                                            -           -        -            -
A14.14.5.6.    Cargo door control valve                                                                                        -           -        -            -




                                                              127
                                                                                                                                        Attachment 14
                                                              C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                           2. Core    3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                                           Tasks                                                               Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                                          Provided
                                                                                                                                                                    (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                                                    A         B               C
                                                                                           A    B         A              B         C       D        E        3 level   5 level         7 level
                                                                                                                                 Trainee Trainer
                                                                                                          Tng            Tng                     Certifier                        (1)        (2)
                                                                                           5     7        Start         Comp
                                                                                                                                   Init    Init
                                                                                                                                                 Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
                                                                                                                                   ials    ials

ATTACHMENT 15 (C40 Training Requirements)
NOTE 1: The core tasks listed in Attachment 16 are in addition to those in Attachment 2.
NOTE 2: Tasks and knowledge listed in Attachment 16 will be used in conjunction with Attachment 2 by C-40 personnel for upgrade requirements.
NOTE 3: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.

A15.1.             GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL MAINTENANCE
                   AIRCRAFT FAMILIARIZATION
                   TR:
A15.1.1.           Aircraft safe for maintenance                                           *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.1.2.           Major structural areas                                                  *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.1.3.           Aircraft egress procedures                                              *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.1.4.           Flight-line safety precautions/security                                 *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.1.5.           ETOPS Training-Manufacturer Initial & Recurrent                         *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.2.             AIRCRAFT GROUND HANDLING
                   (GENERAL MAINTENANCE)
                   TR: APPLICABLE C-40 TECHNICAL ORDERS
A15.2.1.           Ground Aircraft or equipment                                            *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.2.2.           Open & close engine cowlings                                            *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.2.3.           Open & close APU access doors                                           *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.2.4.           Remove & install aircraft access panels                                 *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.2.5.           Lubricate aircraft                                                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.3.             TOW AIRCRAFT
                   TR: C-40 AMM II 09-11-00
A15.3.1.           Perform wing/tail walker duties IAW T.O. checklist                      *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.3.2.           Tow brake operator                                                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.3.3.           Tow vehicle operator                                                                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.3.4.           Tow team supervisor                                                                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.3.5.           Operate airstairs                                                       *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.3.6.           Perform HSC/ISO inspection                                                                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.3.7.           Use aircraft interphone system                                                                                                              -         -         -             -
A15.4.             PERFORM REFUEL/DEFUEL TEAM MEMBER
                   DUTIES
                   TR: C-40 AMM II 12-11-00
A15.4.1.           Panel operator                                                                                                                              -         -         -             -
A15.4.2.           Supervisor                                                                                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.4.3.           Foreign Object Damage FOD/Dropped Object Prevention
                                                                                                                                                               -         -         -             -
                   Program DOPP in & around aircraft
A15.5.             JACK & LEVEL AIRCRAFT
                   TR: C-40 AMM II 07-11-01
A15.5.1.           Jacking safety & warnings                                               *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.5.2.           Manual hand pump                                                                                                                            -         -         -             -
A15.5.3.           Air pressure manifold                                                                                                                       -         -         -             -
A15.5.4.           Perform jacking team member duties                                      *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.6.             APPLY/DISCONNECT EXTERNAL ELECTRICAL
                   POWER USING
                   TR: C-40 AMM II 24-22-00
A15.6.1.           Hanger power units EPU6                                                 *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.6.2.           AGE electrical power units Dash 86                                      *                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.6.3.           Operate aircraft auxiliary power unit & generator (APU)                                                                                     -         -         -             -

                                                                                               128
                                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 15
                                                        C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                           2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                           Tasks                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                         Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                                   A         B               C
                                                                           A    B        A             B          C       D        E        3 level   5 level         7 level
                                                                                                                Trainee Trainer
                                                                                        Tng            Tng                      Certifier                        (1)        (2)
                                                                           5     7      Start         Comp
                                                                                                                  Init    Init
                                                                                                                                Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
                                                                                                                  ials    ials

A15.6.4.       Launch / recover aircraft                                                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.7.         AUTO FLIGHT ATA CHAPTER 22
               TR: C-40 AMM I & II 22-00-00
A15.7.1.       Theory of operation / auto flight                                                                                              -         -         -             -
A15.7.2.       Inspect system / auto flight                                     *                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.7.3.       Perform operational check / test auto flight                *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.7.4.       Isolate malfunctions / auto flight                          *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.7.5.       Perform advanced troubleshooting / auto flight                   *                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.8.         ATA CHAPTER 22 AUTO FLIGHT/PILOT
               HYDRAULIC COMPONENTS REMOVE & INSTALL
               TR: C-40 AMM II 22-00-00, C-40 AMM II 22-11-12,
               C-40 AMM II 22-23-21C-40 AMM II 22-11-25,
               C-40 AMM II 22-11-26, C-40 AMM II 22-11-40,
               C-40 AMM II 22-23-11, C-40 AMM II 22-23-21
A15.8.1.       Autopilot actuator solenoid & transfer valves                                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.8.2.       Autopilot aileron actuator                                                                                                     -         -         -             -
A15.8.3.       Autopilot elevator actuator                                                                                                    -         -         -             -
A15.8.4.       Hydraulic pressure switch                                                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.8.5.       Standby rudder power control unit solenoid & transfer
                                                                                                                                              -         -         -             -
               valves
A15.8.6.       Main rudder power control unit solenoid & transfer valves                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.9.         FLIGHT CONTROLS ATA CHAPTER 27
               TR: C-40 AMM I & II 27-00-00
A15.9.1.       Theory of operation / flight controls                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.9.2.       Perform operational check / test flight controls            *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.9.3.       Isolate malfunctions / flight controls                      *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.9.4.       Inspect system / flight controls                                 *                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.9.5.       Perform advanced troubleshooting / flight controls               *                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.10.        ATA CHAPTER 27 FLIGHT CONTROLS /
               HYDRAULIC COMPONENTS REMOVE & INSTALL
               TR: C-40 AMM II 27-00-00, C-40 AMM II 27-09-21,
               C-40 AMM II 27-09-31, C-40 AMM II 27-09-51,
               C-40 AMM II 27-09-61, C-40 AMM II 27-11-14,
               C-40 AMM II 27-11-54, C-40 AMM II 27-11-71,
               C-40 AMM II 27-21-00-700-822,
               C-40 AMM II 27-21-24, C-40 AMM II 27-21-87,
               C-40 AMM II 27-21-91,
               C-40 AMM II 27-21-91-000-806,
               C-40 AMM II 27-21-94, C-40 AMM II 27-21-95,
               C-40 AMM II 27-31-14, C-40 AMM II 27-31-20,
               C-40 AMM II 27-31-34, C-40 AMM II 27-31-35,
               C-40 AMM II 27-31-64, C-40 AMM II 27-31-67,
               C-40 AMM II 27-51-02, C-40 AMM II 27-51-04,
               C-40 AMM II 27-51-51, C-40 AMM II 27-51-52,
               C-40 AMM II 27-51-61, C-40 AMM II 27-51-62,
               C-40 AMM II 27-51-65,
               C-40 AMM II 27-51-65-360-801,
               C-40 AMM II 27-61-12, C-40 AMM II 27-61-51,
               C-40 AMM II 27-62-41, C-40 AMM II 27-62-61,
               C-40 AMM II 27-62-71, C-40 AMM II 27-62-94,
               C-40 AMM II 27-81-31, C-40 AMM II 27-81-41,
               C-40 AMM II 27-81-52, C-40 AMM II 27-81-61,
               C-40 AMM II 27-81-71, C-40 AMM II 27-81-81,
               C-40 AMM II 27-81-91, C-40 AMM II 27-83-21
A15.10.1.      Flight controls hydraulic module                                                                                               -         -         -             -

                                                                               129
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 15
                                                       C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                           2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                           Tasks                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                         Provided
                                                                                                                                                   (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                                   A         B               C
                                                                           A    B        A             B          C       D        E        3 level   5 level         7 level
                                                                                                                Trainee Trainer
                                                                                        Tng            Tng                      Certifier                        (1)        (2)
                                                                           5     7      Start         Comp
                                                                                                                  Init    Init
                                                                                                                                Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
                                                                                                                  ials    ials

A15.10.2.      Flight controls shutoff valve & valve motor                                                                                    -         -         -             -
A15.10.3.      Compensator cartridge                                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.10.4.      Low pressure warning switch                                                                                                    -         -         -             -
A15.10.5.      Aileron power control unit linkage                                                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.10.6.      Aileron trim actuator                                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.10.7.      Aileron power control unit                                                                                                     -         -         -             -
A15.10.8.      Main rudder power control unit internal hydraulic leakage
                                                                                                                                              -         -         -             -
               test
A15.10.9.      Standby rudder power control unit                                                                                              -         -         -             -
A15.10.10.     Rudder trim actuator                                                                                                           -         -         -             -
A15.10.11.     Main rudder power control unit                                                                                                 -         -         -             -
A15.10.12.     Main rudder power control unit load limiter solenoid
                                                                                                                                              -         -         -             -
               valve
A15.10.13.     Standby rudder power control unit shutoff valve & motor                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.10.14.     Rudder hydraulic fuse                                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.10.15.     Elevator power control unit                                                                                                    -         -         -             -
A15.10.16.     Elevator feel shift module                                                                                                     -         -         -             -
A15.10.17.     Elevator tab lock actuator                                                                                                     -         -         -             -
A15.10.18.     Elevator tab control valve & solenoid valve                                                                                    -         -         -             -
A15.10.19.     Elevator feel and centering unit                                                                                               -         -         -             -
A15.10.20.     Elevator feel actuator                                                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.10.21.     Trailing edge flap bypass valve & motor                                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.10.22.     Flap priority valve                                                                                                            -         -         -             -
A15.10.23.     Flap power drive unit                                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.10.24.     Flap hydraulic motor                                                                                                           -         -         -             -
A15.10.25.     Flap control unit                                                                                                              -         -         -             -
A15.10.26.     Flap control quadrant                                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.10.27.     Trailing edge flap control valve & load limiter solenoid                                                                       -         -         -             -
A15.10.28.     Trailing edge flap control valve internal leakage repair                                                                       -         -         -             -
A15.10.29.     Spoiler shutoff valve & motor                                                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.10.30.     Flight spoiler actuator                                                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.10.31.     Ground spoiler control valve                                                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.10.32.     Ground spoiler interlock valve                                                                                                 -         -         -             -
A15.10.33.     Inboard ground spoiler actuator                                                                                                -         -         -             -
A15.10.34.     Outboard ground spoiler actuator                                                                                               -         -         -             -
A15.10.35.     Leading edge flap actuator                                  *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.10.36.     Leading edge slat actuator                                  *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.10.37.     Leading edge uncommanded motion / cruise
                                                                                                                                              -         -         -             -
               depressurization valve
A15.10.38.     Leading edge flap & slat hydraulic fuse                                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.10.39.     Leading edge flap flow limiting valve                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.10.40.     Leading edge flap & slat control valve                                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.10.41.     Leading edge standby shutoff valve & motor                                                                                     -         -         -             -
A15.10.42.     Autoslat control valve                                                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.11.        ATA CHAPTER 29 HYDRAULIC POWER
               TR: C-40C AMM I & II 29-00-00


                                                                               130
                                                                                                                                                        Attachment 15
                                                     C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                               2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                               Tasks                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                             Provided
                                                                                                                                       (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                       A         B               C
                                                               A    B        A             B          C       D        E        3 level   5 level         7 level
                                                                                                    Trainee Trainer
                                                                            Tng            Tng                      Certifier                        (1)        (2)
                                                               5     7      Start         Comp
                                                                                                      Init    Init
                                                                                                                    Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
                                                                                                      ials    ials

A15.11.1.      Theory of operation                                                                                                -         -         -             -
A15.11.2.      Inspect system                                       *                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.11.3.      Perform operational check / test                *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.11.4.      Isolate malfunctions                            *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.11.5.      Perform advanced troubleshooting                     *                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.12.        ATA CHAPTER 29 HYDRAULIC SYSTEM A OR B
               PRESSURIZATION
               TR: C-40C AMM II 29-00-00,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-00-860-804,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-00-860-802,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-00-860-803,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-00-860-804
A15.12.1.      Pressurize with portable hydraulic cart         *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.12.2.      Pressurize using electric motor-driven pump     *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.12.3.      Pressurize with engine-driven                                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.13.        ATA CHAPTER 29 HYDRAULIC SYSTEM A OR B
               TR: C-40C AMM II 29-00-00,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-00-860-805,
               C-40 AMM II 29-00-00-870-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-00-00-900-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-00-00-900-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-00-170-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-00-170-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-00-700-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-00-700-802,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-00-200-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-34-00-700-801
A15.13.1.      Power removal                                   *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.13.2.      Bleed                                           *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.13.3.      Fluid replacement                               *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.13.4.      Flushing                                        *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.13.5.      Operational test                                *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.13.6.      System test                                     *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.13.7.      Hydraulic fluid check                           *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.13.8.      Pump low pressure warning system operational
                                                                                                                                  -         -         -             -
               check / test
A15.14.        ATA CHAPTER 29 HYDRAULIC RESERVOIRS
               TR: C-40C AMM II 29-00-00,
               C-40 AMM II 29-09-00-860-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-09-00-860-802,
               C-40 AMM II 29-09-00-860-803,
               C-40 AMM II 12-12-00-610-801
A15.14.1.      Pressurize                                      *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.14.2.      Depressurize                                    *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.14.3.      System test / leak check                        *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.14.4.      Service                                         *                                                                  -         -         -             -




                                                                   131
                                                                                                                                            Attachment 15
                                                     C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                         2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                         Tasks                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                       Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                                 A         B               C
                                                                         A    B        A             B          C       D        E        3 level   5 level         7 level
                                                                                                              Trainee Trainer
                                                                                      Tng            Tng                      Certifier                        (1)        (2)
                                                                         5     7      Start         Comp
                                                                                                                Init    Init
                                                                                                                              Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
                                                                                                                ials    ials

A15.15.        ATA CHAPTER 29 HYDRAULIC RESERVOIRS
               COMPONENTS REMOVE & INSTALL
               TR: C-40C AMM II 29-00-00, C- 40 AMM II 29-09-01,
               C-40 AMM II 29-09-02, C-40 AMM II 29-09-03,
               C-40 AMM II 29-09-04, C-40 AMM II 29-09-05,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-04, C-40 AMM II 29-11-08,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-11, C-40 AMM II 29-11-21,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-27, C-40 AMM II 29-11-31,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-41, C-40 AMM II 29-11-51,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-61,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-61-210-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-71-000-801/400-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-71-000-803/400-803,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-71-000-803/400-803,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-71-000-804/400-804,
               C-40 AMM II 29-11-81, C-40 AMM II 29-11-91,
               C-40 AMM II 29-18-01, C-40 AMM II 29-18-11,
               C-40 AMM II 29-18-21, C-40 AMM II 29-22-11,
               C-40 AMM II 29-22-00-710-801,
               C-40 AMM II 29-22-21, C-40 AMM II 29-22-31,
               C-40 AMM II 29-22-41, C-40 AMM II 29-31-12,
               C-40 AMM II 29-32-00, C-40 AMM II 29-32-12,
               C-40 AMM II 29-33-12, C-40 AMM II 29-34-11,
               C-40 AMM II 29-34-21
A15.15.1.      Air pressure filter, check valve & assembly               *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.2.      Air charging valve                                        *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.3.      Air pressure gauge                                        *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.4.      Cross fitting assembly                                    *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.5.      Pressure relief valve                                                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.15.6.      Heat exchanger                                                                                                               -         -         -             -
A15.15.7.      Ground service disconnect filter & module                 *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.8.      Hydraulic systems A & B engine-driven pump                *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.9.      Hydraulic systems A & B electric motor-driven pump        *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.10.     Hydraulic systems A & B electric motor-driven pump
                                                                         *                                                                  -         -         -             -
               acoustic filter
A15.15.11.     Hydraulic system A & B reservoir                                                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.15.12.     Hydraulic electric motor-driven pump case drain filter
                                                                         *                                                                  -         -         -             -
               & module
A15.15.13.     Hydraulic engine-driven pump case drain filter & module                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.15.14.     Hydraulic return filter & module                          *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.15.     Hydraulic system A & B return differential pressure
                                                                         *                                                                  -         -         -             -
               indicator
A15.15.16.     Hydraulic system A & B pressure filter & module,
                                                                         *                                                                  -         -         -             -
               EMDP/EDP
A15.15.17.     Hydraulic system A & B pressure module check valve                                                                           -         -         -             -
A15.15.18.     Hydraulic system A & B pressure module relief valve                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.15.19.     Hydraulic engine-driven pump supply shutoff valve                                                                            -         -         -             -
A15.15.20.     Hydraulic pumps module P5-8 panel                                                                                            -         -         -             -
A15.15.21.     Reservoir manual fill pump                                *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.22.     Reservoir fill filter & module                            *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.23.     Reservoir fill selector valve                             *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.24.     Power transfer unit                                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.15.25      Power transfer unit system operational test                                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.26.     Power transfer unit pressure filter & module              *                                                                  -         -         -             -

                                                                             132
                                                                                                                                                      Attachment 15
                                                       C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                     2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                     Tasks                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                   Provided
                                                                                                                                             (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                             A         B               C
                                                                     A    B        A             B          C       D        E        3 level   5 level         7 level
                                                                                                          Trainee Trainer
                                                                                  Tng            Tng                      Certifier                        (1)        (2)
                                                                     5     7      Start         Comp
                                                                                                            Init    Init
                                                                                                                          Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
                                                                                                            ials    ials

A15.15.27.     Power transfer unit control valve                                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.15.28.     Engine driven pump pressure switch auto slat system                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.15.29.     System pressure transmitter                                                                                              -         -         -             -
A15.15.30.     Case drain overheat switch                                                                                               -         -         -             -
A15.15.31.     Hydraulic fluid overheat warning switch                                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.15.32.     Hydraulic fluid quantity transmitter / indicator                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.15.33.     Engine driven pump low pressure switch                                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.15.34.     Hydraulic system A or B EMDP low pressure switch                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.16.        ATA CHAPTER 29 STANDBY HYDRAULIC
               SYSTEM
               TR: C-40C AMM I & II 29-00-00,
               C-40 AMM II 29-21-00, C-40 AMM II 29-21-00
A15.16.1.      Pressurization                                        *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.16.2.      Power removal                                         *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.16.3.      Operational test                                      *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.16.4.      System test                                           *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.16.5       Operational test of the standby hydraulic actuation
                                                                     *                                                                  -         -         -             -
               system
A15.17.        ATA CHAPTER 29 STANDBY SYSTEM REMOVE &
               INSTALL COMPONENTS
               TR: C-40C AMM II 29-00-00, C-40 AMM II 29-21-21,
               C-40 AMM II 29-21-31, C-40 AMM II 29-21-41,
               C-40 AMM II 29-21-51,
               C-40 AMM II 29-31-12-000-802/400-802,
               C-40 AMM II 29-33-21, C-40 AMM II 29-34-31
A15.17.1.      Standby system electric motor driven pump             *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.17.2.      Standby reservoir                                                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.17.3.      Standby EMDP case drain filter & module               *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.17.4.      Standby pressure module, filter & relief valve                                                                           -         -         -             -
A15.17.5.      Standby system pressure transmitter                                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.17.6.      Standby reservoir low quantity switch                                                                                    -         -         -             -
A15.17.7.      Standby EMDP low pressure switch                                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.18.        ATA CHAPTER 32 LANDING GEAR
               TR: C-40C AMM I & II 32-00-00,
               C-40 AMM II 32-05, C-40 AMM II Chap 32, C-40 PMA
A15.18.1.      Theory of operation                                                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.18.2.      Inspect system                                             *                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.18.3.      Perform operational check / test                      *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.18.4.      Isolate malfunctions                                  *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.18.5.      Perform advanced troubleshooting                           *                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.19.        ATA CHAPTER 32 MAIN LANDING GEAR SHOCK
               STRUT SEALS
               TR: C-40C AMM II 32-00-00,
               C-40 AMM II 32-11-21-960-801,
               C-40 AMM II 32-11-21-960-802,
               C-40 AMM II 32-11-21-200-801
A15.19.1.      Replace active seals with spare seals                                                                                    -         -         -             -
A15.19.2.      Replace active and spare seals                                                                                           -         -         -             -
A15.19.3.      Leakage check                                         *                                                                  -         -         -             -



                                                                         133
                                                                                                                                                  Attachment 15
                                                       C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                 2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                 Tasks                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                               Provided
                                                                                                                                         (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                         A         B               C
                                                                 A    B        A             B          C       D        E        3 level   5 level         7 level
                                                                                                      Trainee Trainer
                                                                              Tng            Tng                      Certifier                        (1)        (2)
                                                                 5     7      Start         Comp
                                                                                                        Init    Init
                                                                                                                      Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
                                                                                                        ials    ials

A15.20.        ATA CHAPTER 32 REMOVE & INSTALL MLG
               COMPONENTS
               TR: C-40 AMM II 32-00-00,
               C-40 AMM II 32-11-81-000-803/400-802,
               C-40 AMM II 32-11-81-000-804/400-803,
               C-40 AMM II 32-11-81-000-805/400-804,
               C-40 AMM II 32-11-81-000-801/400-801,
               C-40 AMM II 32-32-11, C-40 AMM II 32-32-21,
               C-40 AMM II 32-32-41, C-40 AMM II 32-32-51,
               C-40 AMM II 32-32-52, C-40 AMM II 32-32-71,
               C-40 AMM II 32-32-72
A15.20.1.      Damper compensator                                                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.20.2.      Manifold assembly                                                                                                    -         -         -             -
A15.20.3.      End gland assembly                                                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.20.4.      Shimmy damper                                                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.20.5.      Main gear actuator assembly                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.20.6.      Main gear retract pressure fuses                                                                                     -         -         -             -
A15.20.7.      Main gear uplock actuator                                                                                            -         -         -             -
A15.20.8.      Main gear downlock actuator                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.20.9.      Main gear frangible fitting & assembly                                                                               -         -         -             -
A15.20.10.     Main gear transfer cylinder                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.20.11.     Main landing gear hydraulic flow regulator                                                                           -         -         -             -
A15.21.        ATA CHAPTER 32 NOSE LANDING GEAR SHOCK
               STRUT SEALS
               TR: C-40 AMM II 32-00-00,
               C-40 AMM II 32-21-11-960-801,
               C-40 AMM II 32-21-11-960-802,
A15.21.1.      Replace active seals with spare seals                                                                                -         -         -             -
A15.21.2.      Replace active and spare seals                                                                                       -         -         -             -
A15.21.3.      NLG shock strut seal leakage check                                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.22.        ATA CHAPTER 32 REMOVE & INSTALL NLG
               COMPONENTS
               TR: C-40 AMM II 32-00-00, C-40 AMM II 32-31-51,
               C-40 AMM II 32-31-71, C-40 AMM II 32-33-11,
               C-40 AMM II 32-33-21, C-40 AMM II 32-33-31,
               C-40 AMM II 32-33-41, C-40 AMM II 32-33-71,
               C-40 AMM II 32-33-72
A15.22.1.      Landing gear selector valve                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.22.2.      Landing gear transfer valve                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.22.3.      Nose gear retract actuator                                                                                           -         -         -             -
A15.22.4.      Nose gear lock actuator                                                                                              -         -         -             -
A15.22.5.      Nose gear lock valve manifold                                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.22.6.      Nose gear transfer cylinder                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.22.7.      Nose gear retract & extend pressure fuses                                                                            -         -         -             -
A15.22.8.      Nose gear hydraulic flow regulator                                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.23.        ATA CHAPTER 32 HYDRAULIC BRAKE SYSTEM
               TR: C-40C AMM II Chap 32-00-00,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-00-870-801,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-00-870-802,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-00-870-803,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-00-870-804,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-00-870-805,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-00-820-801,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-00-710-801,

                                                                     134
                                                                                                                                              Attachment 15
                                                       C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                      2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                      Tasks                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                                    Provided
                                                                                                                                              (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                              A         B               C
                                                                      A    B        A             B          C       D        E        3 level   5 level         7 level
                                                                                                           Trainee Trainer
                                                                                   Tng            Tng                      Certifier                        (1)        (2)
                                                                      5     7      Start         Comp
                                                                                                             Init    Init
                                                                                                                           Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
                                                                                                             ials    ials
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-00-710-802,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-00-710-803

A15.23.1.      Bleed upstream of antiskid valves                                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.23.2.      Normal system B brake bleeding                                                                                            -         -         -             -
A15.23.3.      Alternate system A brake bleeding                                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.23.4.      Normal system B brake fuse test                                                                                           -         -         -             -
A15.23.5.      Alternate system A brake fuse test                                                                                        -         -         -             -
A15.23.6.      Hydraulic brake system adjustment                                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.23.7.      Normal & alternate brake application-functional test                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.23.8.      Gear retract braking-operational test                                                                                     -         -         -             -
A15.23.9.      Accumulator-operational test                                                                                              -         -         -             -
A15.23.10.     Alternate brake system-operational test                                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.24.        ATA CHAPTER 32 HYDRAULIC BRAKE SYSTEM
               COMPONENT REMOVE & INSTALL
               TR: C-40C AMM II 32-41-00, C-40 AMM II 32-41-11,
               C-40 AMM II 32-51-5, C-40 AMM II 32-41-31,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-51/54, C-40 AMM II 32-41-53,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-71, C-40 AMM II 32-41-72,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-91, C-40 AMM II 32-41-93,
               C-40 AMM II 32-41-95, C-40 AMM II 32-41-96,
               C-40 AMM II 32-42-31, C-40 AMM II 32-42-71,
               C-40 AMM II 32-42-81, C-40 AMM II 32-44-21,
               C-40 AMM II 32-51-11, C-40 AMM II 32-51-51
A15.24.1.      Brake disconnect                                                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.24.2.      Brake metering valve assembly                                                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.24.3.      Hydraulic brake accumulator & pressure gauge                                                                              -         -         -             -
A15.24.4.      Hydraulic brake accumulator pressure transmitter                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.24.5.      Brake accumulator pressure relief valve                                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.24.6.      Brake hydraulic fuses                                                                                                     -         -         -             -
A15.24.7.      Brake accumulator isolation valve                                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.24.8.      Alternate brake selector valve                                                                                            -         -         -             -
A15.24.9.      Brake shuttle valves                                                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.24.10.     Brake flow limiters                                                                                                       -         -         -             -
A15.24.11.     Normal & alternate antiskid valve                                                                                         -         -         -             -
A15.24.12.     Autobrake shuttle valves                                                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.24.13.     Autobrake pressure control module & LRU’s                                                                                 -         -         -             -
A15.24.14.     Parking brake shutoff valve                                                                                               -         -         -             -
A15.24.15.     Steering metering valve                                                                                                   -         -         -             -
A15.24.16.     Nose gear steering actuator & swivel                                                                                      -         -         -             -
A15.25.        ATA CHAPTER 78 THRUST REVERSER
               TR: C-40 AMM I & II 78-00-00, C-40 AMM I 78-31-00,
               C-40 AMM II 78-31-01,
               C-40 AMM II 78-31-00-700-801-F00,
               C-40 AMM I 78-31/34/36, C-40 PMA Series
A15.25.1.      Theory of operation                                                                                                       -         -         -             -
A15.25.2.      Inspect system                                              *                                                             -         -         -             -
A15.25.3.      Perform operational check / test                       *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.25.4.      Isolate malfunctions                                   *                                                                  -         -         -             -
A15.25.5.      Perform advanced troubleshooting                            *                                                             -         -         -             -



                                                                          135
                                                                                                                                                   Attachment 15
                                                      C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
                                                                2. Core   3. Certification for OJT                                 4. Proficiency Codes Used To
                                                                Tasks                                                              Indicate Training/Information
                                                                                                                                              Provided
                                                                                                                                        (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                                                                                        A         B               C
                                                                A    B        A             B          C       D        E        3 level   5 level         7 level
                                                                                                     Trainee Trainer
                                                                             Tng            Tng                      Certifier                        (1)        (2)
                                                                5     7      Start         Comp
                                                                                                       Init    Init
                                                                                                                     Initials    Course     CDC      Course     CDC
                                                                                                       ials    ials
A15.26.        ATA CHAPTER 78 THRUST REVERSER
               COMPONENTS REMOVE & INSTALL
               TR: C-40 AMM II 78-31, C-40 AMM II 78-31-03,
               C-40 AMM II 78-34-01, C-40 AMM II 78-34-07,
               C-40 AMM II 78-34-08
A15.26.1.      Thrust reverser hydraulic actuators                                                                                 -         -         -             -
A15.26.2.      Thrust reverser control valve module                                                                                -         -         -             -
A15.26.3.      Thrust reverser volumetric hydraulic fuses                                                                          -         -         -             -
A15.26.4.      Thrust reverser shuttle valve                                                                                       -         -         -             -




                                                                    136
                                                                                                                                             Attachment 15
     C-40 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS




This page intentionally left blank




                137
                                     Attachment 15
                                                 2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                             AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN
                                                                       2. Core     3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                       Tasks                                                                        To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                    Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                            A     B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                         5    7       Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                      Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

ATTACHMENT 16
NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating training references to identify current references pending STS revision.
NOTE 2: This attachment is to be used in conjunction with other attachments in applicable CFETPs.
NOTE 3: Personnel must complete CDC requirements on all MDSs/attachments.
NOTE 4: This attachment is to be used as a correlation document for the 2AX7X 7-level Aerospace Maintenance Craftsman CDCs.
NOTE 5: Address comments and recommended changes through the MAJCOM Functional Managers to the AETC Training Manager, DSN 736-2772.
A16.1.         MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-103, AFI 21-118,
               AFI 21-129, AFI 33-360,
               AFCSM 21-556 Volume 2, AFTTP 3-3,
               TO 00-20-1, TO 00-35D-54
A16.1.1.       Aircraft and Equipment Readiness                                                                                               -           -        -           A
A16.1.2.       Maintenance Concept                                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.1.3.       Reliability and Maintainability (R&M)                                                                                          -           -        -           A
A16.1.4.       Operating Instructions (OI)                                                                                                    -           -        -           A
A16.1.5.       Maintenance Information Systems (MIS)                                                                                          -           -        -           B
A16.1.6.       Maintenance Metrics                                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.1.7.       Maintenance Repair Priorities                                                                                                  -           -        -           A
A16.1.8.       Historical Aircraft and Equipment Records                                                                                      -           -        -           A
A16.2.         MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION KEY LEADER
               RESPONSIBILITIES
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 38-101
A16.2.1.       Wing Commander (WG/CC)                                                                                                         -           -        -           A
A16.2.2.       Wing Vice Commander (WG/CV)                                                                                                    -           -        -           A
A16.2.3.       Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC)                                                                                           -           -        -           A
A16.2.4.       Maintenance Group Deputy Commander (MXG/CD)                                                                                    -           -        -           A
A16.2.5.       MXG Superintendent (SUPT)                                                                                                      -           -        -           A
A16.2.6.       Squadron Commander (SQ/CC)                                                                                                     -           -        -           A
A16.2.7.       Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO)/Maintenance
                                                                                                                                              -           -        -           A
               Superintendent (MX SUPT)
A16.2.8.       Flight Commander/Flight Chief                                                                                                  -           -        -           A
A16.2.9.       AMU OIC/Superintendent (SUPT)                                                                                                  -           -        -           A
A16.2.10.      Section NCOIC/Chief                                                                                                            -           -        -           B
A16.2.11.      Production Superintendent (Pro Super)                                                                                          -           -        -           A
A16.3.         FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE                OPERATIONS
               SQUADRON (MOS)
               TR: AFI 21-101
A16.3.1.       Maintenance Operations Flight (MOF)                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.3.2.       Maintenance Training Flight (MTF)                                                                                              -           -        -           A
A16.3.3.       Programs and Resources Flight                                                                                                  -           -        -           A
A16.4          FUNCTIONS OF AIRCRAFT/HELICOPTER
               MAINTENANCE SQUADRON(AMXS/HMXS)
               TR: AFI 21-101
A16.4.1.       Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)                                                                                                -           -        -           A



                                                                             138
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 16
                                             2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                         AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN

                                                                    2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                    Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                        A     B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                     5    7       Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                  Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A16.4.2.       Flightline Expediter                                                                                                       -           -        -           A
A16.4.3.       Aircrew and Maintenance Debrief Section                                                                                    -           -        -           A
A16.4.4.       Aircraft Section                                                                                                           -           -        -           A
A16.4.5.       Specialist Section                                                                                                         -           -        -           A
A16.4.6.       Weapons Section                                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.4.7.       Support Section                                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.5.         FUNCTIONS OF MAINTENANCE SQUADRON
               (MXS)
               TR: AFI 21-101
A16.5.1.       Accessories Flight                                                                                                         -           -        -           A
A16.5.2.       Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) Flight                                                                                    -           -        -           A
A16.5.3.       Armament Flight                                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.5.4.       Avionics Flight                                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.5.5.       Fabrication Flight                                                                                                         -           -        -           A
A16.5.6.       Maintenance Flight                                                                                                         -           -        -           A
A16.5.7.       Munitions Flight                                                                                                           -           -        -           A
A16.5.8.       Propulsion Flight                                                                                                          -           -        -           A
A16.5.9.       Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE)
                                                                                                                                          -           -        -           A
               Flight
A16.6.         MAINTENANCE TRAINING
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232,
               and AFPD 10-9,
               ETCA:
               https://etca.randolph.af.mil/,
               TBA:
               https://www.my.af.mil/imdsltpa/IMDSTWeb/Actio
               nServlet

A16.6.1.       Types of Training                                                                                                          -           -        -           A

A16.6.2.       Training Documentation                                                                                                     -           -        -           A

A16.6.3.       Training Business Area (TBA)                                                                                               -           -        -           B

A16.6.4.       Special Certification Rosters                                                                                              -           -        -           A

A16.6.5.       Maintenance Qualification Program (MQP)                                                                                    -           -        -           A
A16.6.6.       Training Management
               TR: AFI 36-2201, AFI 36-2232, AETCI 36-2601
A16.6.6.1.     Training Forecast                                                                                                          -           -        -           A

A16.6.6.2.     Training Request                                                                                                           -           -        -           A

A16.6.6.3.     Master Training Plan                                                                                                       -           -        -           A
A16.7.         PERSONNEL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2110, AFI 38-201 and
               AFTTP 3-3
A16.7.1.       Unit Manpower Document (UMD) and Unit Personnel
                                                                                                                                          -           -        -           A
               Manpower Roster (UPMR)
A16.7.2.       Personnel Utilization                                                                                                      -           -        -           A




                                                                         139
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 16
                                               2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                           AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN

                                                                        2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                        Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                    Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                     (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                             A    B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                          3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                         5    7       Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                      Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A16.8          MAINTENANCE SUPPLY
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 24-203, AFJI 31-102, AFI 32-7086,
               AFI 90-821, AFMAN 23-110, AFMAN 23-220,
               AFTTP 3-3, TO 00-5-1, TO 00-20-1, TO 00-35D-54,
               TO 42B2-1-3, and TO 6J3-1-1
A16.8.1.       Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Supply Support                                                                              -           -        -           A
A16.8.2.       Readiness Spares Packages                                                                                                      -           -        -           A
A16.8.3.       Consumables Management                                                                                                         -           -        -           A
A16.8.4.       Equipment Items                                                                                                                -           -        -           A
A16.8.5.       Supply Assets Requiring Functional Check, Calibration,                                                                         -           -        -           A
               or Operational Flight Programming
A16.8.6.       Precious Metals Recovery Program                                                                                               -           -        -           A
A16.8.7.       Supply Points                                                                                                                  -           -        -           A
A16.8.8.       Local Manufacture                                                                                                              -           -        -           A
A16.8.9.       Repair Cycle Assets                                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.8.10.      Supply Management Products                                                                                                     -           -        -           A
A16.8.11.      Tail Number Bins (TNB)                                                                                                         -           -        -           A
A16.8.12.      Maintenance Repair/Supply Delivery Priorities                                                                                  -           -        -           A
A16.8.13.      Classified Assets                                                                                                              -           -        -           A
A16.8.14.      Hazardous Materials                                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.8.15.      Supply Deficiency and Discrepancy Reporting                                                                                    -           -        -           A
A16.8.16.      Special Handling of Supply Assets Containing                                                                                   -           -        -           A
               Hazardous Materials
A16.8.17.      Maintenance Supply Liaison                                                                                                     -           -        -           A
A16.9.         TECHNICAL ORDER MANAGEMENT
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 21-303, AFI 63-101,
               AFTTP 3-3, TO 00-5-1, TO 00-5-15,
A16.9.1.       Technical Orders Distribution Process                                                                                          -           -        -           A
A16.9.2.       Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO)                                                                                        -           -        -           A
A16.9.3.       Technical Order Change Process                                                                                                 -           -        -           A
A16.9.4.       Technical Order Waivers                                                                                                        -           -        -           A
A16.10.        MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS AND
               PROGRAMS
               TR: AFI 21-101, AFI 36-2232 and AFTTP 3-3
A16.10.1.      Cannibalization Program                                                                                                        -           -        -           A
A16.10.2.      Restricted Maintenance Areas                                                                                                   -           -        -           A
A16.10.3.      Red Ball Maintenance                                                                                                           -           -        -           A
A16.10.4.      Aircraft/Equipment Impoundment Program                                                                                         -           -        -           A
A16.10.5.      Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Program                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.10.6.      Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program                                                                                        -           -        -           A
A16.10.7.      Tool Management                                                                                                                -           -        -           A
A16.10.8.      Tool Accountability
               TR: AFI 21-101


                                                                             140
                                                                                                                                                         Attachment 16
                                               2AX7X Specialty Training Standard
                                           AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE CRAFTSMAN

                                                                    2. Core    3. Certification For OJT                                       4. Proficiency Codes Used
                                                                    Tasks                                                                       To Indicate Training/
                                                                                                                                                Information Provided
                                                                                                                                                 (See Attachment 1)
1. Tasks, Knowledge And Technical References                         A    B        A         B        C          D           E          A           B               C
                                                                                                                                      3 Level     5-Level         7 Level
                                                                     5    7       Tng        Tng    Trainee    Trainer    Certifier                          (1)           (2)
                                                                                  Start     Comp    Initials   Initials   Initials    Course       CDC      Course        CDC

A16.10.8.1.    Marking and Tool Identification                                                                                            -           -        -           A
A16.10.8.2.    Locally Manufactured, Developed, or Modified Tools                                                                         -           -        -           A
               and Equipment
A16.10.8.3.    Lost Item/Tool Procedures                                                                                                  -           -        -           A
A16.10.9.      Maintenance Recovery Team                                                                                                  -           -        -           A
A16.11.        QUALITY ASSURANCE (QA) PROGRAM
               TR: AFI 21-101, and AFTTP 3-3
A16.11.1.      Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program                                                                         -           -        -           A
               (MSEP)
A16.11.2.      QA Product Improvement Program                                                                                             -           -        -           A
A16.11.3.      Configuration Management (CM) and Modification                                                                             -           -        -           A
               Management




                                                                         141
                                                                                                                                                     Attachment 16
