DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   CFETP 1C1X1
Headquarters US Air Force                                                      Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                      14 Mar 2014




                          Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 1C1X1
                                    Air Traffic Control




                                                                      Master




                                          Senior




                Basic

                        CAREER FIELD
                 EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website located at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


                                             1
SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication was changed to include: Core task modifications, proficiency code adjustments,
and the addition of automated radar system tasks.




                                              2
                      CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                     AFSC 1C1X1
                                    Table of Contents


PART I

Preface                                                          5

Abbreviations/Terms Explained                                    6

Section A—General Information                                    12
       Purpose
       Uses
       Coordination and Approval

Section B—Career Progression and Information                     14
       Specialty Description
       Skill/Career Progression
              Apprentice Level (3)
              Journeyman Level (5)
              Craftsman Level (7)
              Superintendent Level (9)
              Chief Enlisted Manager Level (CEM 1C100)
       Training Decisions
       Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)
       Career Field Path

Section C—Skill Level Training Requirements                      25
       Purpose

          Training Requirements
                 Apprentice Level (3)
                 Journeyman Level (5)
                 Craftsman Level (7)
                 Superintendent Level (9)

Section D—Resource Constraints                                   28

Section E—Transitional Training Guide                            28




                                              3
PART II

Section A—Specialty Training Standards (STS)                            29
            Apprentice Course (3-level)
            Craftsman Course (7-level)

Section B—Course Objective List                                         54

Section C—Support Materials                                             55

Section D—Training Course Index                                         56

Section E—MAJCOM Unique Requirements                                    57




__________________________________________________________________________
OPR: HQ AFFSA/A3A
Certified by: CMSgt Joseph Kirk (HQ HAF/A3O-BA)
Supersedes: CFETP 1C1X1, 30 September 2010
Pages: 57




                                           4
                        AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL AFSC 1C1X1
                   CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

Preface

1. This Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) is a comprehensive education and
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources, and minimum core task requirements for this specialty. The CFETP will provide
personnel a clear career path to success and will instill rigor in all aspects of career field training.
NOTE: Department of Defense (DoD) civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II
to support duty position qualification training.

2. The CFETP consists of two parts. Supervisors plan, manage and control training within the
specialty using both parts of the plan.

2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A
explains how everyone will use the plan. Section B identifies career field progression
information, duties and responsibilities, training strategies and career field path. Section C
associates each level with specialty qualifications (i.e. knowledge, education, experience,
training and other). Section D indicates resource constraints (i.e. funds, manpower, equipment,
facilities). Section E identifies transition training guide requirements for SSgt through MSgt.

2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS),
and includes: duties, tasks, technical references to support training, Air Education and Training
Command (AETC) conducted training, wartime course and core task and correspondence course
requirements. Section B contains the course objective list and training standards which
supervisors will use to determine if Airmen satisfied training requirements. Section C identifies
available support materials. Section D identifies a training course index supervisors may use to
determine resources available to support training; included here are both mandatory and optional
courses. Section E identifies MAJCOM unique training requirements supervisors can use to
determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level,
supervisors and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan and conduct training commensurate with
the overall goals of this plan.

3. Using guidance provided in the CFETP will ensure individuals in this specialty receive
effective and efficient training at the appropriate points in their career. This plan will enable us
to train today’s work force for tomorrow’s jobs.




                                                   5
                          ABBREVIATIONS/TERMS EXPLAINED

Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL) – An evolving, outcomes-focused approach to
education, training, and performance aiding that blends standards-based distributed learning
models emphasizing reusable content objects, content and learning management systems,
performance support systems/devices, web applications services, and connectivity. ADL is an
evolution of distributed learning (distance learning) that emphasizes collaboration on standards-
based versions of reusable objects, networks and learning management systems; yet may include
some legacy methods and media. ADL is structured learning that takes place without requiring
the physical presence of an instructor. Although the Air Force uses the term advanced
distributed learning, some federal agencies and components may use the term distance learning.
These terms refer to the same basic concept.

Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) – ADLS is the system that delivers ADL
content and tracks & reports student progress.

Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) - The AEF is the Air Force’s methodology for
organizing, training, equipping and sustaining rapidly responsive air and space forces to meet
defense strategy requirements. Through the AEF, the Air Force supports defense strategy
requirements using a combination of both permanently assigned and rotational (allocated) forces.

Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) - Representative appointed by the respective HQ
USAF Deputy Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat to ensure assigned Air Force specialties are
trained and utilized to support AF mission requirements. AFCFM is the OPR for the career
field; however, works in concert with MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFMs) as required.

Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) - The official directory for all military
enlisted classification descriptions, codes and identifiers. The specialty descriptions and codes
will be used to identify each Air Force job (valid requirements) and to describe the minimum
mandatory qualifications of personnel to fill these jobs. The updated AFECD is available at:
https://gum-crm.csd.disa.mil/app/answers/detail/a_id/7504/kw/afecd.

Air Force Officer Classification Directory (AFOCD) - The official directory for all military
officer descriptions, codes and identifiers.

Air Force Specialty (AFS) - A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require
common qualifications.

Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) - A five digit alphanumeric code with potential prefixes and
suffixes added to identify each career field within the Air Force.

Airman Leadership School (ALS) - The first of three programs enlisted professionals attend
during their Air Force careers. ALS is a military educational institution charged to prepare SrA-
SSgt selects for positions of greater responsibility by preparing them for supervisory and
reporting official duties.




                                               6
Assistant Chief Controller (ACCTLR) - Assists the Chief Controller in managing the internal
operation of the air traffic facility and performs duties as prescribed by the Chief Controller.

Assistant Non-Commissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC) Air Traffic Control Training
(ANATCT) - Assists the NCOIC Air Traffic Control Training (NATCT) in monitoring Air
Traffic Control (ATC) facility training, coordinating monthly training schedules and training
records inspections. The ANATCT also assists the NATCT in developing and managing the unit
air traffic control simulator systems (radar or tower) and management of computer based
products.

Assistant NCOIC, Standardization and Evaluation (ANSE) - Assists the NCOIC
Standardization and Evaluation (NSE) in administering the facility certification and rating
program according to applicable USAF, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and host nation requirements.

Assistant NCOIC, Training and Standardization (ATSN) – Assists the TSN in fulfilling the
duties of the NATCT and NSE.

Airfield Operations Systems Specialist (AOSS) - Individual(s) responsible for operating and
monitoring airfield operations automated systems.

Basic Military Training (BMT) – BMT is the initial military training course for new enlisted
Air Force members. The course provides the individual with a basic foundation and introduction
to Air Force history, customs and courtesies, physical fitness and military bearing.

Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) - A CFETP is a comprehensive core
training document that identifies life-cycle education and training requirements, training support
resources and minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give
personnel a clear path and instill a sense of industry in career field training. It is the formal
training contract between the AFCFM and AETC for formal accession and life-cycle skills
training.

Chief Controller (CCTLR) - Manages the internal operation of the air traffic facility to include
direct supervision of personnel assigned, ensuring ATC services are provided that meet mission
needs and effectively implementing the controller training program.

Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) - An Air Force specialty coding identifying all Chief Master
Sergeant positions in the Airman Classification Structure. In many cases, CEM codes are made
up of a series of existing superintendent specialties where the degree of supervisory and
managerial task involvement permits expanded resource use.

Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) - Federally chartered degree-granting institution
that awards an associate degree to active duty enlisted and Air Force Reserve component
members. The associate in applied science degree is awarded for successful completion of a
degree program specifically designed for an Air Force specialty.




                                                7
Control Tower Operator (CTO) - An endorsement by the CTO examiner that an individual has
demonstrated the competence, qualifications and skills required to control air traffic in the local
control, ground control and flight data positions. A CTO Special Experience Identifier (SEI) is
056 for a 5-level.

Controller In Charge (CIC) – The civilian equivalent to the Watch Supervisor (WS) position.

Core Task - Tasks the AFCFM identifies as minimum qualification requirements for everyone
within an AFSC, regardless of duty position. Core tasks may be specified for a particular skill
level or in general across the AFSC. All 3-skill level controllers must meet the knowledge and
practical application standards of all core tasks prior to upgrade to a 5-skill level. Core tasks
may be adjusted for duty position requirements or deployment training, as determined by the
AFCFM. Only the AFCFM can defer a core task as specified by AFI 36-2201, Air Force
Training Programs.

Course Training Standard (CTS) - Training standard identifying training members will receive
in a specific course.

Crew Resource Management (CRM) - A process designed to aid in the prevention of aviation
accidents and incidents by improving crew performance through a better understanding of human
factor concepts.

Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) - A 24-hour telephone line for supervisors to call
when questions arise about training received at any formal technical training school. This
system allows HQ AETC (Keesler Technical Training School) to respond quickly to the
concerns of field supervisors. See Part II, Section A, paragraph 4 for the phone number.

Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) - Contains specific MAJCOM
procedures, fund citations, reporting instructions and listings for those formal courses conducted
or managed by the MAJCOMs or field operating agencies. The ETCA website is located at:
https://etca.randolph.af.mil/default1.asp

Functional Area Managers (FAM) – The individual accountable for the management and
oversight of all personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support the
operational planning and execution. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing
and reviewing policy, developing, managing and maintaining Unit Type Codes (UTCs),
developing criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting, force posturing, and analysis. At
each level of responsibility (Headquarters Air Force (HAF), Major Command (MAJCOM), Air
Component, Field Operating Agencies (FOA), Direct Reporting Units (DRU) and Unit), the
FAM should be the most highly knowledgeable and experienced person within the functional
area and have the widest range of visibility over the functional area readiness and capability
issues.

Functional Account Code (FAC) - Code used to identify work centers on the Unit Manpower
Document (UMD), Unit Personnel Management Roster (UMPR) and related documents.



                                                8
Ground Controlled Approach (GCA) - A fixed, mobile or transportable facility that provides
radar arrival and RFC services within airspace designated by an approach control facility.

Initial Skills Training - A formal school course that result in an AFSC 3-skill level award for
enlisted or mandatory training for upgrade to qualify for officers.

Major Command (MAJCOM) - A major subdivision of the Air Force organized on a
functional basis in the United States and a geographical basis overseas. MAJCOMs are
interrelated and complementary, providing offensive, defensive and support elements to
operational commanders.

MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM)  Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate
functional authority (FA) who provide day-to-day management responsibility over specific
functional communities at the MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, or Air Reserve Component (ARC) level.
While they should maintain an institutional focus in regards to resource development and
distribution, FMs are responsible for ensuring their specialties are equipped, developed, and
sustained to meet the functional community’s mission as well as encourage force development
opportunities in order to meet future needs of the total Air Force mission.

NCOIC, Airfield Automation Manager (NAAM) - Individual responsible for managing the
internal operation and establishment of procedures for the airfield operations automation.

NCOIC, Air Traffic Control Training (NATCT) - ATC individual responsible for developing
and managing the unit ATC Training Program to include building and maintaining sector and
scenario simulation products.

NCOIC, Air Traffic Control Standardization and Evaluation (NSE)- ATC individual who
administers the facility certification and rating program according to applicable USAF, FAA,
ICAO and host nation requirements.

NCOIC, Air Traffic Control Training and Standardization (TSN) - Fulfills the duties of the
NATCT and NSE.

NCO Academy (NCOA) - A military educational institution charged to prepare Technical
Sergeants and Technical Sergeant-selects for positions of greater responsibility by broadening
their leadership and supervisory skills and expanding their perspective of the military profession.

Notice to Airman (NOTAM) - A notice containing information concerning the establishment,
condition or change in any component in the National Airspace System that is essential to
personnel concerned with flight operations.

Numbered Air Force (NAF) - A level of command directly under a MAJCOM. NAFs are
tactical echelons that provide operational leadership and supervision in specific geographic
regions or theater of operations.

Occupational Analysis (OA) - Collecting and analyzing factual data on the tasks and/or



                                                9
knowledge‘s performed by Air Force career fields. This data is used to provide personnel and
training decision-makers with factual and objective job information which enables them to
justify and/or change personnel utilization policies and programs, refine and maintain
occupational structures, and establish, validate and adjust testing and training programs.

Occupational Survey Report (OSR) A detailed report showing the results of an occupational
survey of tasks performed within a particular AFS.

On-The-Job-Training (OJT) - Dual track system of providing subject/task knowledge and
hands-on over-the-shoulder training. OJT is conducted to certify personnel in both upgrade (skill
level award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training.

Proficiency - Additional and/or periodic training and performance requirements, established by
local facility managers, MAJCOMS, and/or HQ AF Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA) to
maintain personnel skills and knowledge standards for the local operational complexity.

Qualification Training Hands-on performance training designed to qualify personnel in a
specific position. This training occurs both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-
date qualifications.

Qualification Training Package (QTP) - An instructional package designed for use at the unit
to qualify, or aid qualification, in a duty position or program or on a piece of equipment. It may
be printed, computer-based or in other audio/visual media.

Radar Approach Control (RAPCON) - A terminal ATC facility that uses RADAR and non-
RADAR capabilities to provide control services to aircraft arriving, departing or transiting
airspace controlled by the facility.

Radar Final Control (RFC) - An ATC service that provides navigational guidance or approach
monitoring during the final phase of flight. An RFC facility is defined as a fixed or deployable
radar facility that provides RFC service.

Resource Constraints - Resource deficiencies, such as money, facilities, time, manpower and
equipment that preclude desired training from being delivered.

Senior Controller (SC) - The individual responsible for the overall operations of an air traffic
control facility during their shift and maintains general situational awareness of air traffic (see
Watch Supervisor). A senior controller is also simultaneously responsible for duties at an
operating position.

Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (SNCOA) - SNCOA is for Master Sergeants and
Senior Master Sergeant selects, sister service Senior NCOs, and international senior NCOs. The
33-academic day curriculum is designed to expand the leadership capabilities of senior enlisted
leaders and reinforce a commitment to the profession of arms.

Skills Training - A formal course resulting in the award of a skill level.


                                                10
Special Experience Identifier (SEI) - SEIs identify special experience and training not
otherwise reflected in the classification system. SEIs are primarily used for contingency
purposes. SEIs are awarded based on completion of formal training, OJT, a unique course and
experience performing specific duties. See the AFECD and AFOCD for more specifics.

Specialty Knowledge Test (SKT) - One of two tests in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). The SKT is an examination that covers broad technical knowledge within a given
AFSC.

Specialty Training Requirements Team (STRT) – Forum to determine Education and
Training requirements, by bringing together training experts to establish the most effective mix
of formal and on-the-job training for each AFS skill level. The primary purpose of the STRT is
for the AFCFM and functional leaders to determine and present training requirements to the
AETC Training Pipeline Manager (TPM) and Training Manager (TM).

Specialty Training Standard (STS) - An Air Force publication (typically inserted as Part II of
the CFETP) that describes an Air Force specialty in terms of tasks and knowledge that an
Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on the job. Also identifies the
training provided to achieve a 3-, 5- or 7-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It further serves as a
contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training
requirements for an AFSC are taught in formal schools and correspondence courses.

Standard - An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept, established and defined by
authority, custom or common consent sets up to serve as a reference, model or rule in measuring
quantities or qualities, establishing practices or procedures or evaluating results. A fixed
quantity or quality.

Terminal Instrument Procedures (TERPS) Specialist - The individual responsible for
designing, reviewing and updating instrument procedures and ATC charts to support flight
operations. This includes, but is not limited to: instrument approach procedures, ATC charts,
aeronautic source and obstruction information, automation and non-radar support etc.

Total Force All collective Air Force components (active, reserve, guard and civilian elements)
of the United States Air Force.

Unit Type Code (UTC) - A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting of
five characters that uniquely identify a "type unit" of the Armed Forces. Source: DoD Dictionary
of Military Terms; http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/dod_dictionary/. AF ATC UTC Example:
7FVL5 (SEI 055, E-5 Min, Tower Watch Supervisor).

Upgrade Training (UGT) - Mandatory training that leads to obtaining a higher level of
proficiency and award of a skill level.

Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) – This is an executive decision meeting. A
forum of the AFCFM, AETC TPM, MAJCOM FMs, and AETC TM. The AFCFM and AETC
Training Pipeline Manager (TPM) will sign and publish minutes before adjourning workshop.



                                                 11
Wartime Course - Comprised of tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a
wartime environment. Wartime tasks are the tasks to be taught in the 3-level course when the
wartime courses have been activated. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in
the 3-level course in a streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields
that still need them applied to their schoolhouse tasks.

Wartime Tasks - Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime
environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3 level course in a
streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that still need them
applied to their schoolhouse tasks.

Watch Supervisor (WS) - The individual responsible for the overall operations of an air traffic
control facility during their shift and maintains general situational awareness of air traffic.

Weighted Airman Promotion System (WAPS) - The Air Force promotion system for enlisted
members. Consists of six promotion factors, each assigned points based on importance relative
to promotion.

Section A - General Information

1. Purpose. This CFETP provides the information necessary for AFCFM, MFM, commanders,
training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop, manage, and conduct an effective
and efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the training that individuals in this
AFS should receive in order to develop and progress throughout their career. This plan identifies
initial skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency training. Initial skills training is
the AFS specific training an individual receives upon entry into the Air Force or upon retraining
into this specialty for award of the 3-skill level. Normally, this training is conducted by AETC at
one of the technical training centers. Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task
qualification requirements, and correspondence course completion requirements for award of the
3-, 5-, 7-, 9-skill level. Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training
designed to qualify an airman in a specific duty position. This training program occurs both
during and after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills
and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is formal specialty training used for
selected airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-residence or exportable
advanced training courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to increase their skills
and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. Some purposes of the CFETP are:

1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, manage, conduct, and evaluate a career field-training
program. Also, it is used to help supervisors identify training at the appropriate point in an
individual’s career.

1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends education and training throughout each phase of an individual’s career.

1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of training and the
training delivery method.



                                                 12
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact full implementation of the desired career
field training process.

2. Uses. The plan will be used by MFMs and supervisors at all levels to ensure comprehensive
and cohesive training programs are available for each individual in the specialty.

2.1. AETC training personnel will develop or revise formal resident, nonresident, field and
exportable training, based upon requirements established by the users and documented in Part II
of the CFETP. They will also work with the AFCFM to develop acquisition strategies for
obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.

2.2. MFMs will ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial,
upgrade and proficiency requirements. OJT, resident training, and contract training or
exportable courses can satisfy identified requirements. MAJCOM-developed training to support
this AFSC must be identified for inclusion into the plan.

2.3. All 1C1 AFS personnel, to include GS-2152 and 13M personnel, will complete the
mandatory training requirements specified in this plan. The list of courses in Part II will be used
as a reference to support training.

3. Coordination and Approval. The AFCFM is the approval authority and will initiate an annual
review of this document to ensure currency and accuracy. MAJCOM representatives and AETC
training personnel will identify and coordinate on the career field training requirements. Using
the list of courses in Part II, they will eliminate duplicate training.




                                                13
Section B - Career Progression and Information

4. Specialty Description.

4.1. Specialty Summary. Controls terminal air traffic by use of visual, radar and non-radar
means. Supervises and manages ATC facilities. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 122200.
(Refer to AFECD, paragraph 1.)

4.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Controls and regulates en route and terminal air traffic.
Initiates and issues ATC clearances, instructions, and advisories to ensure the safe, orderly and
expeditious flow of air traffic operating under instrument and visual flight rules. Plans,
organizes, directs, inspects and evaluates ATC activities. (Refer to AFECD, paragraph 2.)

4.2.1. ATC Journeyman (5-Skill Level/GS-2152).

4.2.1.1. Controls terminal air traffic. Initiates and issues ATC clearances, instructions and
advisories to air traffic operating under instrument and visual flight rules. Uses air or ground
communications, aural, visual and radar systems to control and expedite air traffic. Uses flight
plan data, position reports, visual observations and radar-displayed data to determine aircraft
positions. Issues advisories to pilots, ATC and other agencies concerning weather conditions,
NOTAM information, traffic flow control measures, wake turbulence and additional services.
Provides flight assistance and emergency service to pilots. Conducts intra-facility and inter-
facility coordination of clearances, instructions, advisories and aircraft movement information.
Maintains operating position forms and records. Performs equipment turn-on and alignment
functions.

4.2.1.3. Operates radar facilities (RAPCON, GCA and RFC). Uses non-radar and radar
procedures to separate and control arriving, departing and enroute aircraft within designated
airspace. Radar monitors departing aircraft and aircraft making instrument approaches using
other navigational aids. Releases and/or accepts aircraft to and/or from other enroute or terminal
ATC facilities.

4.2.1.4. Operates control tower facilities. Uses visual, radar and non-radar procedures to
separate and control aircraft operating in the vicinity of an airport and on the movement area.
Issues control instructions to provide separation between aircraft and vehicular traffic operating
on the aerodrome. Operates field lighting controls, visual signaling devices, aircraft arresting
barrier position controls and primary crash alarm system. Releases and/or accepts aircraft to
and/or from other terminal ATC facilities. Makes tower visibility observations.

4.2.1.5. Operates non-radar approach control tower facilities. Uses visual, radar and non-radar
procedures to separate and control aircraft operating in the vicinity of an airport and on the
movement area. Issues control instructions to provide separation between aircraft and vehicular
traffic operating on the aerodrome. Operates field lighting controls, visual signaling devices,
aircraft arresting supply and personnel problems. Discusses inspection findings with supervisory
personnel and recommends action to correct deficiencies. Combines conventional tower and
non-radar procedures to separate and control arriving, departing and enroute aircraft within



                                               14
designated airspace for departing aircraft and aircraft making instrument approaches using
navigational aids. Releases and/or accepts aircraft to and/or from other enroute or other terminal
ATC facilities.

4.2.1.6. Maintains continual surveillance of assigned airspace and aircraft movement area.

4.2.1.7. Performs as upgrade/qualification OJT trainer/monitor. OJT trainers must be qualified
IAW AFI 36-2201. Local trainer requirements will be provided to new arrivals already trainer
certified.

4.2.2. ATC Craftsman (7-Skill Level/GS-2152).

4.2.2.1. Controls terminal air traffic. Initiates and issues ATC clearances, instructions and
advisories to ensure safe, orderly and expeditious flow of air traffic operating under instrument
and visual flight rules. Employs air and ground communications, aural, visual and radar systems
to control and expedite movement of air traffic. Releases and/or accepts aircraft to and/or from
other enroute or terminal ATC facilities. Coordinates the status of other ATC facilities.

4.2.2.2. Supervises ATC functions. Ensures the facility operates in a safe, efficient and
professional manner. Effects coordination within the facility and between other facilities or
agencies. Exercises general supervision over ATC personnel. Identifies training requirements,
ensures training is conducted and certifies training. Ensures pre-duty familiarization and
equipment checks are conducted and appropriate agencies are notified of equipment deficiencies.
Directs actions of controllers in handling aircraft mishaps, emergencies, bomb threats, fire and
similar emergency situations. Implements emergency operational plans and procedures.

4.2.2.3. Performs as upgrade/qualification OJT trainer. OJT trainers for ATC management
training (CCTLR, NATCT, and NSE) must: be certified on tasks to be trained, possess the
appropriate SEI, complete the AF Trainers Course, complete HQ AFFSA ATC Trainer QTP and
respective management QTPs, must be position certified and/or facility rated and be
recommended by their supervisor. Initial requirements only pertain to first time trainer
qualifications. Local trainer requirements will be provided to new arrivals that are trainer
certified.

4.2.3. ATC Superintendent (9-Skill Level/GS-2152).

4.2.3.1. Plans and organizes ATC activities. Provides for use and control of space, equipment,
time, supplies and personnel allotted to ATC activities. Analyzes traffic data from ATC
facilities. Requisitions and accounts for equipment, space, supplies and other resources required
for efficient operation. Designs organizational chart to show lines of authority and to identify
specific responsibilities for performing ATC functions.

4.2.3.2. Directs ATC activities. Establishes procedures and performance standards in ATC
facilities. Recommends installing, maintaining and removing ATC equipment and facilities.




                                               15
4.2.3.3. Inspects and evaluates ATC activities. Conducts periodic inspection of ATC activities
to determine operational readiness and to provide assistance in solving operation, maintenance,
supply and personnel problems. Discusses inspection findings with supervisory personnel and
recommends action to correct deficiencies.

4.2.3.4. Advises supervisor on status, maintenance and adequacy of equipment, supplies,
training and operational efficiency. Interprets ATC policies for operational community.

4.2.3.5. Controls terminal air traffic in order to maintain operational awareness and proficiency.

4.2.4. Chief Enlisted Manager (0-Skill Level/GS-2152).

4.2.4.1. Plans and organizes RAPCON ATC activities.

4.2.4.2. Directs ATC activities. Establishes procedures and performance standards in ATC
Radar facilities. Recommends installing, maintaining and removing ATC equipment and
facilities.

4.2.4.3. Inspects and evaluates ATC activities. Conducts periodic inspection of ATC activities
to determine operational readiness and to provide assistance in solving operation, maintenance,
supply and personnel problems. Discusses inspection findings with supervisory personnel and
recommends action to correct deficiencies.

4.2.4.4. Controls terminal air traffic in order to maintain operational awareness and proficiency.

4.2.4.5. Serves on MAJCOM or Air Force ATC Staff positions.

NOTE: This CFETP outlines career progression/training requirements for 1C1 AFS personnel
to perform ATC in a terminal environment only.              Additional MAJCOM specific
requirements/training plan needs to be established for 1C1 AFS personnel to operate enroute
ATC facilities.

5. Skill/Career Progression. Adequate training and timely progression from the apprentice to the
superintendent level play an important role in the Air Force’s ability to accomplish its mission.
It is essential that everyone involved in training must do their part to plan, manage, and conduct
an effective training program. The guidance provided (Table 5.1) in this part of the CFETP will
ensure each individual receives viable training at appropriate points in their career.




                                                16
                               Table 5.1 – Skill/Career Progression
                                       GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training                             Average Sew-        Earliest     High Year Of
Requirements                             Rank      On                  Sew-On       Tenure (HYT)
Basic Military Training School         Amn         6 months
Apprentice Technical School            A1C         16 months
(3-Skill Level)
Upgrade To Journeyman                  Amn
(5-Skill Level)                        A1C         16 months
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job         SrA         3 years             28           8 years
training.                                                              months
- Minimum 9 months on-the-job
training for re-trainees.

Airman Leadership School               Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time    Must be qualified and certified to perform the task to be
in service or be a SSgt selectee.      trained.
- Resident graduation is a             Must attend the Air Force Training Course.
prerequisite for SSgt sew-on (Active
Duty Only).
Upgrade To Craftsman                   SSgt        7.5 years           3 years      15 years
(7-Skill Level)
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- 12 months OJT.
- 6 months OJT for retrainees.
- Complete 7 Level ADLS Craftsman
course.




                                              17
                                          GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Education and Training                                 Average      Earliest       High Year Of Tenure
Requirements                            Rank           Sew-On       Sew-On         (HYT)
Noncommissioned Officer Academy TSgt                   12.5 years   5 years        20 years
- Must be a Master Sergeant (MSgt),
MSgt Select, or Technical Sergeant
(TSgt).
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite
for MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
USAF Senior NCO Academy                 MSgt           16 years     8 years        24 years
- Must be a Senior Master Sergeant
(SMSgt) or SMSgt-Selectee
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite
for SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty
Only).
Upgrade To Superintendent               SMSgt          19.2 years   11 years       26 years
(9-Skill Level)
- Must be a SMSgt

Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM)              CMSgt        21.5 years   14 years       30 years
(0-Skill Level)


5.1. Apprentice (3) Level.

5.1.1. Initial Skills Training. After basic military training, individuals will complete initial skills
training at Keesler AFB, MS. The course content is recorded in the ‘3 Level’ column, Part II of
this CFETP. Personnel must complete a formal DoD or Department of Transportation (DoT)
basic ATC Course and successfully pass the written FAA CTO exam to be awarded AFSC
1C131. The ATC Technical School at Keesler administers the CTO test as part of the apprentice
course. All students must pass the CTO exam prior to graduating the course.

5.1.2. Apprentice controllers must be assigned to FAC 13E125 via AF IMT 2096 or suitable
substitute (contact Force Support Squadron (FSS) for local procedures) once assigned to their
duty location. In addition, apprentice and re-trainee controllers are not authorized to wear the
ATC basic badge until requirements for the award of the RAPCON, tower or GCA SEI are met.
After award of the SEI and meeting the 12 months upgrade time limits, controllers must be
moved from the 13E125 FAC and placed in the appropriate UMD position and associated FAC.

5.1.3. Upon arrival, familiarize the trainee to the new work environment by ensuring the trainee
has sufficient time to become familiar with their new surroundings and complete base/unit in-
processing First Term Airman Center (FTAC) and orientation. Familiarize apprentice controllers
with their organization and its mission. Units must develop a controller indoctrination program


                                                  18
IAW AFI 36-2201 and AFI 13-204v3, Attachment 7. The program must be meaningful to both
apprentice and skilled controllers. Conduct an initial evaluation IAW AFI 36-2201 and AFI 13-
204v3. Discuss training goals, responsibilities (trainee, trainer, supervisor and CCTLR), training
time, training records, promotion, withdrawal procedures and crew policies, etc.

5.1.4. 3-skill level apprentice controllers may, with supervisor recommendation and CCTLR
approval, begin training for the appropriate facility rating/SEI. Apprentice controllers in UGT
are permitted to work unmonitored in the ATC facility assigned once the following SEI
requirements are met: 056, 364, or 053.

NOTE: Apprentice controllers shall not be awarded an initial CTO certification until after
obtaining a minimum of 6 months control tower experience. Facility SEI (not RFC)
requirements are minimum. Qualified controllers should gain additional job experience and
knowledge and obtain other facility of assignment certifications after the position certifications
are met for the award of the SEI. Qualified controllers are not authorized to train or monitor
until AFI 36-2201 and AFI 13-204v3 requirements are met.

5.2. Journeyman (5) Level.

5.2.1. Upgrade training to the 5-skill level begins as of the date arrived on station. To be
eligible for upgrade to the 5-skill level, individuals must complete a minimum of 12 months
UGT, or 9 months for re-trainees, all core task knowledge requirements identified in Part II
section A of 1C1X1 CFETP and all AFI 13-204v3 requirements.

5.2.2. Following award of the 5-skill level and depending on experience, individuals may be
considered for facility OJT trainer.

5.2.3. Individuals will normally attend ALS after assuming the rank of SrA and completing 48
months of service, upon first reenlistment or when selected for promotion to Staff Sergeant
(SSgt). The Air National Guard (ANG) may substitute this course with a non-resident ALS.
Completion of ALS is mandatory prior to assuming the rank of SSgt. Once individuals assume
the rank of SrA and complete ALS, they are authorized to supervise personnel.

5.3. Craftsman (7) Level.

5.3.1. Personnel are entered into 7-skill level upgrade training upon selection to SSgt (not earlier
than the first day of the promotion cycle); or for retrainees, upon award of the 5-skill level if
SSgt select or higher. For controllers to be eligible for upgrade to the 7-skill level, individuals
must satisfactorily complete a minimum of 12 months UGT, or 6 months for retrainees, all
training requirements identified in the Craftsman portion of the Part II STS and the Craftsman
ADLS Course.

NOTE: Upgrade time limits may be waived by WG/CC IAW AFI 36-2201 paragraph 4.1.2.3.




                                                19
5.3.2. Upon award of the 7-skill level individuals may be selected to perform duty as WS, SC,
NATCT, NSE, ACCTLR, NAAM, TERPS and ATC Instructor after completing the appropriate
training package and qualification requirements stated in AFI 13-204v3 and AFI 11-230.

5.3.2.1. Award of applicable WS SEI is not automatic and reserved for individuals who display
the appropriate leadership qualities demanded by the responsibilities of performing WS duties.
After individuals meet all requirements for 7-level upgrade in accordance with AFI 36-2201,
CCTLR may award the applicable facility WS SEI. Forward completed AF IMT 2096 to
NATCT/TSN for processing IAW local procedures.
        - Tower = 055
        - RAPCON = 362
        - GCA = 054

5.3.2.2. Qualified ATC Craftsman having earned a facility WS SEI, are considered for
management positions based on rank, leadership, experience, skills and/or mission need for
additional leadership roles as defined in the AFECD to include: NATCT, NSE, TERPS, NAAM,
AOSS, Combat Airspace, and CCTLR. Once qualified as an ATC Craftsman, attendance to the
CCTLR course is completed, the HQ AFFSA CCTLR QTP is completed, and an individual has
obtained mandatory experience in managing ATC functions, individuals may be eligible for
award of the CCTLR SEI. Individuals must meet requirements listed in the AFECD.

5.3.3. Prior to assuming the rank of TSgt (except re-trainees), individuals must be awarded a 7-
skill level. The primary function performed by a TSgt in ATC is facility watch supervisor. It is
highly recommended that TSgts become dual qualified.

5.3.4. Prior to assuming the rank of MSgt, individuals must complete the NCOA. The Air
National Guard may substitute a non-resident NCOA Course. MSgts are permitted to complete
SNCOA correspondence course. However, completion will not replace in-resident SNCOA
attendance which must be completed prior to being promoted to SMSgt. Selected individuals,
normally MSgt and above, may be considered for HQ AFFSA, MAJCOM and Numbered Air
Force (NAF) ATC staffs.

5.4. Superintendent (9) Level.

5.4.1. The 9-skill level is awarded when individuals assume the rank of SMSgt. Individuals
must have completed the SNCOA in-residence prior to assuming the rank of SMSgt. Air
National Guard commanders may opt for SNCOs to complete the non-resident SNCOA course in
lieu of attending the resident course. The primary function performed by SMSgts in ATC is
facility CCTLR.

5.5. The CEM.

5.5.1. 1C100 is awarded to individuals selected for Chief Master Sergeant (CMSgt). Only
CMSgts with a valid ATCS may fill ATC CEM positions. The primary function performed by
CMSgts in ATC is RAPCON CCTLR or selection to MAJCOM, FOA or Air Force Staff.




                                              20
Specific qualifications and responsibilities are outlined in the AFECD.

6. Training Decisions. The CFETP uses a building block approach (simple to complex) to
encompass the entire spectrum of training requirements for the ATC career field. The spectrum
includes a strategy for when, where and how to meet the training requirements. The strategy
must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed
approach to training. The training decisions were made during the 1C1X1 STRT, held 17-20
July 2012. Contact the AFCFM or MAJCOM FM for a copy of the minutes.

6.1. Initial Skills Training. The initial skills course, E3ABR1C131, will be revised by 334 TRS
at Keesler AFB, MS, per updates made to Part II of this CFETP.

6.2. 5-Skill level upgrade training see paragraph 5.2.1.

6.3. 7-Skill level upgrade training see paragraph 5.3.1.

6.4. Proficiency Training. Training in addition to initial (ATC Apprentice Course), UGT (5-
and 7-skill level) and qualification requirements, entails maintaining knowledge and
performance levels at or above the standards prescribed in STS and the standards/time
requirements specified by the local facility CCTLR. Controllers must meet or exceed the
monthly standards (knowledge via proficiency testing and practical via position time
requirements for positions certified) specified by CCTLR to maintain proficiency.

7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF). CCAF enrollment occurs upon completion of
BMT. CCAF provides the opportunity to obtain an Air Traffic Operations and Management
Degree. Refer to the CCAF Handbook at http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/publications.asp for the
latest information on requirements. In addition, CCAF offers the following:

7.1. CCAF Instructor Certification (CIC). For qualified instructors who teach CCAF collegiate-
level credit awarding courses at a CCAF affiliated school. The CIC program is a three-level
program consisting of three specific levels of achievement. Once an instructor leaves CCAF
instructor duty, they are no longer eligible for the CIC. To obtain more information, refer to the
CCAF       Campus      Affiliations    Policies     and   Procedures    Guidelines,    or     visit
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp.

7.2. Trade Skill Certification. When a CCAF student separates or retires, a trade skill
certification is awarded for the primary occupational specialty. The college uses a competency-
based assessment process for trade skill certification at one of four proficiency levels:
Apprentice, Journeyman, Craftsman/Supervisor or Master Craftsman/Manager.              All are
transcribed on the CCAF transcript.

7.3. Degree Requirements. All airmen are automatically entered into the CCAF program. Prior
to completing an associate degree, the 5-level must be awarded and the following requirements
must be met:




                                                21
Subject Area                                                                                                                    Semester Hours
Technical Education. ........... .................................................................................................            24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ....................................................................                              6
Physical Education ... ........... .................................................................................................           4
General Education .... ........... .................................................................................................          15
Program Elective ...... ........... .................................................................................................         15
   Technical Education; Leadership, Management, and Military
   Studies; or General Education
Total .......... .............. ........... ................................................................................................. 64

7.3.1. Technical Education (24 Semester Hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of Technical
Core subjects/courses must be applied and remaining semester hours applied from Technical
Core/Technical Elective subjects and courses.

7.3.2. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (6 Semester Hours): Professional military
education and/or civilian management courses may be used to fill this requirement. The preferred
method of completing LMMS is through attending Airman Leadership School (ALS), the Non-
Commissioned Officer (NCO) academy and/or the Air Force Senior NCO Academy.

7.3.3. Physical Education (4 Semester Hours): BMT satisfies this requirement.

7.3.4. General Education (15 Semester Hours): The general education requirement is satisfied by
applying courses accepted in transfer or by testing credit. The CCAF General Education Mobile
(GEM) program will assist individuals pursuing general education requirements in a distance
learning format.

7.3.5. Program Elective (15 Semester Hours): Courses applicable to the Technical Education;
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies; or General Education may be used to satisfy program
elective hours.

7.4. Additional off-duty education is a personal choice that is encouraged for all. Individuals
desiring to become an AETC Instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. Special
Duty Assignment (SDA) requires an AETC Instructor candidate to have a CCAF degree, be
within one year of completion (52 semester hours – updated in CCAF web database) or have an
associate degree from a regionally or nationally accredited post-secondary institution. A degreed
faculty is necessary to maintain accreditation through the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools.

7.5. Professional Manager Certification Program (PMC). CCAF offers the PMC to qualified
NCOs and Senior NCOs. The PMC is a professional credential that formally recognizes an
individual’s advanced level of education and experience in leadership and management, as well
as professional accomplishments. This program provides a structured professional development
track that supplements Professional Military Education (PME) and CFETP. Enlisted airmen who
meet     all    program    requirements       are  eligible.       For    information,  visit:
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/certifications.asp .




                                                                      22
7.6. Baccalaureate Degree. The Air University Associate-to-Baccalaureate Cooperative links
Airmen who have completed an associate degree to a collection of accredited "military friendly"
colleges and universities to consider when completing a four-year degree. The program maximizes
the application of military career education and training, and provides a multitude of online academic
and support services for the enlisted member through the Air Force Virtual Education Center.

8. Air Traffic Control Career Field Paths.

8.1. Figure 8.1 depicts typical duty positions in the ATC career field by skill level. This figure
is intended as a guide only to provide Airmen a “snapshot” of possible duty positions in planning
their career and duty assignments; this chart is not all-inclusive.

8.2. My Enlisted Development Plan (MyEDP). All personnel are encouraged to establish a personal
development plan through the Air Force Portal. This account can be established by selecting the Life
& Career option from the Home page and following the prompts under My Enlisted Development
Plan (https://www.my.af.mil/afpc2w20/myxdp). MyEDP is designed to be your "roadmap" to aid in
your continued professional development. It is a useful tool in preparing individuals for the
challenges that all airmen encounter. The EDP is broken down into three modules: Education,
Training and Experience which provide information to enhance your understanding. By no means
does EDP guarantee success; it is only a suggested path based on previous experiences of fellow
enlisted members. Career field information and news will be placed in MyEDP under the career
information tab.




                                                 23
Figure 8.1. Career Field Flow Chart depicts the ATC career path.




                                           24
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. Skill level training requirements in ATC are defined in terms of tasks and
knowledge requirements. This section outlines the specialty qualification requirements for each
skill level in broad, general terms and establishes the mandatory requirements for entry, award
and retention of each skill level. The specific task and knowledge training requirements are
identified in Part II, Section A (STS) of this CFETP.

10. Specialty Qualifications. This information can be found in the official specialty description
in AFECD, paragraph 3.

10.1. Knowledge. Knowledge is mandatory of: ATC principles and procedures, flight
characteristics of aircraft, ICAO and United States federal and military air directives, use of
aeronautical charts, maps, and publications; interpretation, use, and limitations of ATC radar; use
of ATC communications systems and navigational aids, and fundamentals of meteorology.
United States Air Force certification as an ATC specialist satisfies these requirements. Not a
part of the certification requirements, knowledge is also mandatory of principles of organization,
purpose, operation and management of ATC facilities.

10.1.2. Education. For entry into this specialty, completion of high school with courses in
English is desirable.

10.1.3. Training. The following training is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.1.3.1. 1C131 Completion of the ATC Apprentice course (E3ABR1C131 00AB; PDS Code
WXI).

10.1.3.2. 1C171 Completion of the ATC Craftsman course (E6ACW1C171; PDS Code AOC).

10.1.4. Experience. The following experience is mandatory for award of the AFSC indicated:

10.1.4.1. 1C151. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C131.              Also, experience in
mandatory performing functions involving actual control of aircraft.

10.1.4.2. 1C171. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C151.              Also, experience in
mandatory supervising or performing ATC functions.

10.1.4.3. 1C191. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1C171.              Also, experience in
mandatory managing ATC functions.

10.1.5. Other. The following are mandatory as indicated:

10.1.5.1. See Attachment 4 of AFECD for entry requirements.

10.1.5.2. For entry, award, and retention of this AFSC, must maintain Ground Based Aircraft
Controller Medical Standards according to AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards.



                                                25
10.1.5.3. For performance of ATC duties, possession of a valid Federal Aviation Administration
ATC Specialist certificate.

10.1.5.4. Must maintain certifications according to AFI 13-204v3, Airfield Operations
Procedures and Programs.

10.1.5.5. Ability to speak English clearly and distinctly as demonstrated by the Reading Aloud
Test (RAT).

10.1.5.6. Specialty requires routine access to Secret material or similar environment. For award
and retention of AFSCs 1C1X1 and 1C100, completion of a current National Agency Check,
Local Agency Checks and Credit (NACLC) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security
Program Management.

NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed NACLC is authorized provided an
interim Secret security clearance has been granted according to AFI 31-501.

10.1.5.7. For award and retention of these AFSCs, must maintain an Air Force Network License
according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals.

10.1.6. Training Sources. Completion of the Air Traffic Control Apprentice course,
E3ABR1C131 00AB / PDS Code WXI satisfies the knowledge and training requirements
specified in the specialty qualification section for award of the 3-skill level. The STS, Part II
Section A of this CFETP identifies all the knowledge and tasks, with their respective standards.
A list of training courses to support this career field is in Part II, Section D of this CFETP.

10.1.7. Implementation. Entry into initial skills training is through the Air Force Training
Management System. After graduation from the Air Traffic Control Apprentice course,
E3ABR1C131 00AB / PDS Code WXI, 5-skill level upgrade training begins immediately as of
date assigned on station.

10.2. Journeyman – 5-Skill Level (1C151).

10.2.1. Knowledge. See paragraph 10.1.1.

10.2.2. Education. See paragraph 10.1.2

10.2.3. Training. In addition to requirements in paragraph 10.1.3., must meet all local training
program standards for all positions specific to SEI for the facility assigned. See below:

10.2.3.1. RAPCON (364 SEI). Requires certification in approach control, approach assistant
and arrival control, and recommendation by immediate supervisor and commander.

10.2.3.2. GCA (053 SEI). Requires certification in arrival control, arrival assistant and RFC (if
applicable), and recommendation by immediate supervisor and commander.




                                               26
10.2.3.3. Tower (056 SEI). Requires certification in local control, ground control and flight
data, and recommendation by immediate supervisor and commander.

10.2.4. Experience. See paragraph 10.1.4.

10.2.5. Other. See paragraph 10.1.5.

10.2.6. Training Sources/Resources.

10.2.7. Implementation. After completing 12 months (9 months for re-trainees) of upgrade
training and completing all above requirements, submit AF IMT 2096 for award of 5 skill level.
AF IMT 2096 is also submitted for the award of the applicable SEI – SEIs can be awarded prior
to the 5 skill level time requirement – See AFI 13-204v3 - “Qualified Controller.”

10.3. Craftsman (7-Skill Level - 1C171).

10.3.1. Knowledge. See paragraph 10.1.1.

10.3.2. Education. See paragraph 10.1.2.

10.3.3. Training. See paragraph 10.1.3.

10.3.4. Experience. See paragraph 10.1.4.

10.3.5. Other. See paragraph 10.1.5.

10.3.6. Training Sources/Resources. The E6ACW1C171 00XX, ATC Craftsman Course
satisfies the knowledge and training requirements specified above. A list of all training courses
to support this career field is in Part II, Section D.

10.3.7. Implementation. Entry into upgrade training is initiated when an individual possesses
the 5-skill level and is selected for promotion to SSgt (training cannot begin until the first day of
the promotion cycle). See paragraph 5.3.1. for specific details on 7-skill level UGT.

10.4. Superintendent (9-Skill Level - 1C191).

10.4.1. Knowledge. See paragraph 10.1.1.

10.4.2. Education. See paragraph 10.1.2.

10.4.3. Training. Not applicable.

10.4.4. Experience. In addition to paragraph 10.1.4, must have experience in managing ATC
functions outlined in paragraph 4.2.3.

10.4.5. Other. See paragraph 10.1.5.



                                                 27
10.4.6. Training Sources/Resources. Not Applicable.

10.4.7. Implementation. See paragraph 5.4.1. for 9-skill level UGT requirements.

Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal and
desired training from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and
manpower. Narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement
describing what effect each constraint has on training are included. Also included in this section
are actions required, office of primary responsibility and target completion dates. Resource
constraints will be, as a minimum, reviewed and updated annually.

11.1. Constraints. No 3-level constraints exist.

11.1.1. Impact. N/A

11.1.2. Resources Required. N/A

11.1.3. Action Required. N/A

11.2. OPR and Target Completion Date. N/A

11.3. Journeyman (5-Level) Training Constraints. No 5-Level constraints exist.

11.4. Craftsman (7-Level) Training Constraints. No 7-Level constraints exist.

11.5. Superintendent (9-Level) Training Constraints. No 9-Level constraints exist.

Section E - Transitional Training Guide

12. There are currently no transitional training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                   28
                                            PART II

                                           Section A

                                   Air Traffic Control STS

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the 3-
skill level ATC apprentice course beginning 20131030 and graduating 20140220.

2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201 and AFI 13-204v3, this STS provides information on
the tasks necessary for Airmen to perform duties in the 3-skill level. STS includes training
standards, specialty/general core tasks and technical references to conduct training. The STS
identifies those common core knowledge/performance tasks required to obtain position
certification/facility ratings.

2.1. Information in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) identifies common
ATC tasks, knowledge and technical references (TR).

2.2. An asterisk (*) in column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies specialty-wide training requirements.

2.3. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge training requirements. Task
certification, as a minimum, must show Training Start Date (TSD) (if applicable), Training
Completion Date (TCD), Trainee and Trainer Initials.

2.4. Column 4 shows formal training and the proficiency to be demonstrated on the job by 3-
skill level individuals. Proficiency format coding system indicates the level of training and
knowledge provided by the resident training courses. This coding system represents the contract
between the AFCFM and the course providers.

3. Promotion Tests. The STS also serves as a guide for development of promotion tests used in
the WAPS. Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKTs) are developed at the USAF Occupational
Measurement Squadron by Senior NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career
fields. The test samples subject matter areas judged by test development members as most
appropriate for promotion to higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in
the WAPS catalog. Individual responsibilities are in chapter 14 of AFI 36-2606, US Air Force
Reenlistment, Retention and NCO Status Programs. WAPS is not applicable to the Air Reserve
Component.

4. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of
AETC training. A Customer Service Information Line (CSIL) has been installed for the
supervisors’ convenience. For a quick response to concerns, call CSIL at DSN 597-4566 or
Comm 228-377-4566, or fax DSN 597-3790, or e-mail at, 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference
this STS and identify the specific area of concern (paragraph, training standard element, etc).




                                               29
5. STS DOCUMENTATION: Document STS in accordance with AFI 36-2201 and AFI 13-
204v3. Operating initials may not be used to sign any documents contained within the AF Form
623, Individual Training Record Folder.

5.1. Appointed trainers document the “trainer” column of the STS when individuals meet or
exceed the applicable standard.

NOTE: The ATC career field meets the “third-party certification” requirement allowing trainers
to certify trainees on task qualification. This is due to the NSE/TSN position serving as a quality
control check.

5.2. QUALIFICATION STANDARD/CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES: Train and qualify
personnel to the “Go” standard established in the appropriate certification guide. “Go” means
that the individual can perform the task without assistance and meets proficiency standards
identified in Note 4 of the proficiency code key and local requirements for accuracy, timeliness
and correct use of procedures. The NSE must evaluate each task to the “Go” standard for each
control and/or duty position prior to certification. Document all control and duty position
certifications on AF IMT 3622, Air Traffic Control/Weather Certification and Rating Record.

5.3. SUPPLEMENTS: MAJCOM and units may supplement this STS to add command and
local requirements. Those tasks must be documented on AF IMT 797, Job Qualification
Standard/Continuation/Command JQS and included in the associated certification guide
according to AFI 13-204v3.

5.4. PRINTING INSTRUCTION: In an effort to reduce local CFETP printing costs, the
following options are authorized: Keep at least one copy of the entire CFETP (part I and II) in
each ATC facility for general access and master training plan development. CCTLR may
authorize placing only Part II; Section A of the CFETP, with the cover and ID page, in
individual’s AF Form 623.

5.5. TECHNICAL REFERENCE (TR): The NATCT must identify all TR(s) for each
knowledge/task contained in this STS and AF IMT 797. Enter all TR(s) into one master
technical and task reference (MTTR) and each associated certification guide. The NATCT must
maintain a copy of this CFETP in the Master Training Plan according to AFI 13-204v3.

BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE

OFFICIAL


                                               BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                               DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements

Attachments:
    1. Qualitative Requirements
    2. 1C1X1 STS



                                                30
                                     AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                  QUALITATIVE REQUIREMENTS
                                Tasks, Knowledge and Proficiency Level

                                         PROFICIENCY CODE KEY

                      SCALE
                                 DEFINITION: The individual
                      VALUE
                                 Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the
                          1
                                 task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
                                 Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts.
     TASK                 2
                                 (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
 PERFORMANCE
                                 Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work.
    LEVELS                3
                                 (COMPETENT)
                                 Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do
                          4
                                 the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                                 Can name parts, tools and simple facts about the task.
                          a
                                 (NOMENCLATURE)
                                 Can determine step-by-step procedures for doing the task.
     TASK                 b
                                 (PROCEDURES)
  KNOWLEDGE
                                 Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed.
    LEVELS                c
                                 (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                                 Can predict, isolate and resolve problems about the task.
                          d
                                 (COMPLETE THEORY)
                                 Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject.
                         A
                                 (FACTS)
                                 Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject.
    SUBJECT               B
                                 (PRINCIPLES)
  KNOWLEDGE
                                 Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject.
    LEVELS                C
                                 (ANALYSIS)
                                 Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject.
                         D
                                 (EVALUATION)
NOTE 1: An asterisk sign (*) in column 2 indicates a specialty/general core task.
NOTE 2: All core tasks in Section 11 do not apply to GS 2152s unless deemed appropriate by the facility CCTLR.
NOTE 3: All apprentice course training tasks in this specialty training standard are considered wartime tasks.
NOTE 4: All tasks contained in the ATC STS are trained to the 3c level when training for 5-level and above.
NOTE 5: All tasks in Section 7 of the AFC Craftsman 7-level STS do not apply to GS 2152s unless deemed
appropriate by the facility CCTLR.




                                                        31
   TRAINEE NAME    (Last, First, MI)         INITIALS     SSAN (Last 4)


TRAINER AND CERTIFYING OFFICIAL (Printed Name)          WRITTEN INITIALS




                                       32
                             2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                                 4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                         3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                        Tower                               Radar
References
                                            TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

1. OPERATIONS SECURITY
TR: AFI 10-701
1.1. Definition                                                                                                  A

1.2. 1C1X1
                               *                                                                                 A
Vulnerabilities
2. AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (ATC) PUBLICATIONS
TR: AFI 11-201, AFI 13-204v3, Aeronautical Information Manual (AIM)
2.1. Facility Publications     *                                                                                 A
2.2. Comprehend,
Interpret and Apply
                            *                                                                               1a
Flight Information
Publications (FLIPS)
3. OPERATIONAL AREAS
TR: AFI 11-202v3, AFI 13-204v3, AFI 13-217, FAAO JO 7110.65, AIM, ATC Training Series (ATCTS), Title 14 Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR), Computer Based Training Library (CBTL), FLIPS, UFC 3-260-01
3.1. Class A Airspace                                                                                            A

3.2. Class B Airspace                                                                                            A

3.3. Class C Airspace                                                                                            A

3.4. Class D Airspace                                                                                            A

3.5. Class E Airspace                                                                                            A

3.6. Class G Airspace                                                                                            A
3.7. National Airspace
                                                                                                                 A
System (NAS)
3.8. Air Defense
Identification Zone
(ADIZ)
3.9. Flight Information
Region (FIR)
3.10. Airports Affecting
                                                                                                                 A
Operations
3.11. Adjacent Airspace        *                                                                                 B

3.12. ATC Facilities           *                                                                                 B

3.13. Taxiways                                                                                                   B




                                                                  33
                            2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                                4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                        3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                       Tower                               Radar
References
                                           TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

3.14. Runways/Helipads        *                                                                                 B
3.15. Ramps/Parking
                                                                                                                A
Areas
3.16. Field Elevation                                                                                           B
3.17. Visual/Radio Blind
                                                                                                                A
Spots
3.18. Aircraft Arresting
                                                                                                                A
Systems
3.19. Airport Lighting                                                                                          B
3.20. Ground NAVAID
Checkpoints
3.21. Restricted Airspace                                                                                       A

3.22. Warning Areas

3.23. Alert Areas

3.24. Prohibited Areas
3.25. Controlled Firing
Area
3.26. Military
                                                                                                                A
Operations Area (MOA)
3.27. Special Use/ATC
Assigned Airspace                                                                                               A
(ATCAA)
3.28. Military Training
Routes (MTR)
3.29. Temporary Flight
Restriction (TFR)
3.30. Traffic Patterns        *                                                                                 B
3.31.
Bailout/Abandonment of
Aircraft
3.32. External Stores
Jettison
3.33. Fuel Dump

3.34. Hot Brakes




                                                                 34
                           2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                               4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                       3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                      Tower                               Radar
References
                                          TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

3.35. Arm/De-arm

3.36. Dangerous Cargo

3.37. Alert Pads

3.38. Drop Zones

3.39. Hydrazine Areas

3.40. Parachute Ops
3.41. Precision
Approach Critical
                                                                                                               B
Areas/Precision Obstacle
Free Zone (POFZ)
4. AIR NAVIGATIONAL AIDS (NAVAID)
TR: AFI 13-204v3, FAAO JO 7110.65, AIM, Title 14 CFR
4.1. VOR                                                                                                       B

4.2. TACAN                                                                                                     B

4.3. VORTAC                                                                                                    B

4.4. NDB                                                                                                       A

4.5. ILS                                                                                                       B

4.6. GPS                                                                                                       B

4.7. MLS/MMLS
4.8. NAVAID Use
                                                                                                               A
Limitations
4.9. Area Navigation
(RNAV)
4.10. Jet Routes/Airways                                                                                       A
4.11. Minimum
Vectoring Altitude
                                                                                                               A
(MVA)/IFR (MIFR)
Chart
4.12. Minimum Enroute
                                                                                                               A
Altitude (MEA)




                                                                35
                           2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                               4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                       3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                      Tower                               Radar
References
                                          TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

4.13. Minimum
Obstruction Clearance                                                                                          A
Altitude (MOCA)
4.14. Minimum
Reception Altitude
(MRA)
4.15. Minimum Crossing
Altitude (MCA)
4.16. Reporting Points                                                                                         A

4.17. Coordination Fixes                                                                                       A
5. EQUIPMENT OPERATION
TR: AFI 13-204v3, FAAO JO 7110.65, CBTL, ATCTS
5.1. Surveillance Radar
                                                                                                               B
System
5.2. Primary Radar
                                                                                                               B
Capabilities
5.3. Alignment of
Primary Radar
5.4. Electronic Cursor
Procedures
5.5. Secondary Radar
                                                                                                               B
Capabilities
5.6. Beacon Range
Accuracy
5.7. System/Receiver
Control Panel
5.8. Beacon Target
Displacement
Procedures
5.9. Automated Systems
                                                                                                               B
Keyboard
5.10. Precision
Approach Radar (PAR)
Capabilities
5.11. PAR Alignment
5.12. PAR Turnaround
Procedures
5.13. Video Map                                                                                                A
5.14. Flight Data Input
                                                                                                               A
Output (FDIO)




                                                                36
                            2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                                4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                        3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                       Tower                               Radar
References
                                           TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

5.15. Operate Request
Acknowledge Unit
(RAU)/Voice System
5.16. Remote Status
                                                                                                                B
Indicator (RSI)
5.17. Automatic
Terminal Information                                                                                            A
Service (ATIS)
5.18. Operate Weather
/Information                  *                                                                                 2b
Dissemination System
5.19. Wind Indicators
5.20. Operate Light
                                                                                                                2b
Guns
5.21. Operate
                              *                                                                                 2b
Radio/Landlines
5.22. Clocks                  *                                                                                 A

5.23. Operate Intercoms                                                                                         2b
5.24. Primary Crash
                                                                                                                B
Alarm System (PCAS)
5.25. Certified Tower
                                                                                                                B
Radar Displays (CTRD)
5.26. Recorders                                                                                                 A
5.27. Air Traffic Control
Simulation Equipment
(ATCSE)
5.28. Land Mobile Radio
(LMR) Nets
5.29. Auxiliary Power
                            *                                                                                   A
Source
5.30. Evacuation Alarms
5.31. Equipment
Outages
5.32. Night Vision
Devices
5.33. Airfield Lighting
                                                                                                                B
Panel
5.34. NAVAID
                              *                                                                                 A
Malfunction Procedures




                                                                 37
                             2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                                 4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                         3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                        Tower                               Radar
References
                                            TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

5.35. Digital Monitor
and Control
Workstation/Display
Functions
5.36. Digital Radar
Display Configurations
5.37. Digital Radar
Multi-Sensor Operations
6. WEATHER
TR: AFH 11-203v1, AFMAN 15-111, AFMAN 15-124, AFPAM 11-238, FAAO JO 7110.65, ATCTS, CBTL
6.1. Cooperative
                                                                                                                 B
Weather Watch (CWW)
6.2. Effect of Weather
                        *                                                                                        B
on Aircraft
6.3. Disseminate
                        *                                                                                        2b
Weather Information
6.4. Visibility
                                                                                                                 B
Checkpoint Charts
6.5. Prevailing Visibility                                                                                       B
6.6. Solicit/Relay Pilot
                          *                                                                                     2b
Reports (PIREP)
6.7. Low Level Wind
Shear (LLWS) Advisory
6.8. Braking Action
Advisory
6.9. Runway Visual
Range (RVR)
6.10. Runway Visual
Values (RVV)
6.11. Hazardous In-flight
Weather Advisory
Service (HIWAS)
6.12. Weather/Chaff
Advisory
7. OPERATING PROCEDURES
TR: AIM, AFI 10-707, AFI 11-202v3, AFI 11-208, AFI 13-201, AFI 13-202, AFI 13-204v2, AFI 13-204v3, AFMAN 10-100,
FAAO JO 7110.65, FAAO JO 7610.4, FAAO 8200.1, CBTL, Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) Part 91, IFR Supplement,
FLIPs, FAAO 7110.67, FAAO 7220.1B, FAAO 7930.2, FAAO 8240.41
7.1. Control Tower
Operator/Air Traffic
Control Specialist                                                                                               A
(ATCS) Certification
Procedures




                                                                  38
                            2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                                4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                        3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                       Tower                               Radar
References
                                           TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

7.2. General Flight Rules     *                                                                                 B
7.3. Visual Flight Rules
                              *                                                                                 B
(VFR)
7.4. Instrument Flight
                              *                                                                                 B
Rules (IFR)
7.5. Radio/Frequency
                                                                                                                A
Channelization
7.6. Apply ATC
Communication
                              *                                                                                 2b
Procedures
(radio/landline)
7.7. Apply Inter/Intra
                              *                                                                                 2b
Facility Coordination
7.8. Team Position
                              *                                                                                 A
Responsibilities
7.9. Supervisor
Notification                  *
Requirements
7.10. Aircraft Priorities     *                                                                                 B
7.11. Aircraft
                              *                                                                                 B
Characteristics
7.12. Facility Evacuation
                              *
Procedures
7.13. Alternate Facility

7.14. Facility Checklists     *                                                                                 B
7.15. Runway Control
Structure
7.16. Facility Forms          *                                                                                 B
7.17. Mark Flight
                              *                                                                                 2b
Progress Strips
7.18. Apply Transponder
                                                                                                                2b
Procedures/Operations
7.19. Assign Beacon
                                                                                                                2b
Codes
7.20. Transfer Control of
                              *                                                                                 2b
Aircraft
7.21. Coordinate Use of
                              *                                                                                 2b
Airspace




                                                                 39
                          2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                              4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                      3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                     Tower                               Radar
References
                                         TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

7.22. Relay
Closed/Unsafe Runway        *                                                                                 2b
Information
7.23. Issue Airport,
Obstruction, Field          *                                                                                 2b
Condition Information
7.24. Notice to Airmen
                            *                                                                                 B
(NOTAM)
7.25. In-Flight
                            *                                                                                 B
Equipment Malfunctions
7.26. Crash Grid Map                                                                                          A
7.27. Apply No Radio
(NORDO) Aircraft            *                                                                                 1a
Procedures
7.28. Apply
Communications Failure      *                                                                                 1a
Procedures
7.29. Apply Receiver-
Only Acknowledgement        *                                                                                 1a
Procedures
7.30. Apply Emergency
Aircraft Operations         *                                                                                 2b
Procedures
7.31. Apply Expeditious
                            *                                                                                 2b
Compliance Procedures
7.32. Emergency
Locator Transmitter         *                                                                                 B
(ELT) Signals
7.33. Apply Emergency
Fuel Operations             *                                                                                 1a
Procedures
7.34. Apply Minimum
Fuel Operations             *                                                                                 1a
Procedures
7.35. Relay Observed
                            *                                                                                 1a
Abnormalities
7.36. Radar Assistance
to VFR Aircraft in          *
Weather Difficulty
7.37. Overdue Aircraft
                            *                                                                                 A
Procedures
7.38. Anti-Hijack
                            *                                                                                 A
Procedures




                                                               40
                            2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                                4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                        3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                       Tower                               Radar
References
                                           TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

7.39. Traffic Alert and
Collision Avoidance
System (TCAS)                 *                                                                                 B
Resolution Advisories
(RA)
7.40. Facility Bomb
                              *
Threats
7.41. Aircraft Bomb
                              *
Threats
7.42. Climb to VFR
Instructions
7.43. Special VFR
                              *                                                                                 B
(SVFR) Procedures
7.44. Maintain
Surveillance of Surface                                                                                         2b
Area
7.45. Maintain
Surveillance of
                                                                                                                2b
Controlled Movement
Area (CMA)
7.46. Respond to
                              *                                                                                 2b
Operational Requests
7.47. Apply Additional
                              *                                                                                 2b
Services
7.48. Issue Bird
                              *                                                                                 1a
Advisory Information
7.49. Protect Overhead
                              *                                                                                 2b
Traffic Pattern
7.50. Issue Traffic
                              *                                                                                 2b
Advisories
7.51. Issue Safety Alerts     *                                                                                 2b

7.52. Divert Advisories       *
7.53. Request for
Information from Non-         *
ATC Agencies
7.54. Aircraft
Conducting Unusual
Maneuvers
7.55. Single Frequency
Approaches
7.56. Minimum Distance
without Final Clearance
7.57. VFR-on-Top
Aircraft



                                                                 41
                            2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                                4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                        3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                       Tower                               Radar
References
                                           TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

7.58. Issue Missed
                              *                                                                                 2b
Approach Instructions
7.59. Issue Breakout
                              *                                                                                 2b
Instructions
7.60. Control Vehicles,
Equipment and                                                                                                   2b
Personnel
7.61. Issue Wheels
                              *                                                                                 2b
Check
7.62. Determine Aircraft
                                                                                                                2b
Position on Airfield
7.63. Use of Active
                                                                                                                2b
Runways
7.64. Runway Selection
                                                                                                                B
Procedures
7.65. Issue
Takeoff/Landing                                                                                                 2b
Clearances
7.66. Cancel
Takeoff/Landing                                                                                                 2b
Clearances
7.67. Issue Landing
                              *                                                                                 2b
Information
7.68. Landing Clearance
without Visual                                                                                                  B
Observation
7.69. Issue Restricted
                              *                                                                                 2b
Low Approaches
7.70. Issue Altimeter
                              *                                                                                 2b
Setting
7.71. Transfer Position
                              *                                                                                 2b
Responsibility
7.72. Apply Pre-Duty
Familiarization               *                                                                                 1a
Procedures
7.73. Apply Visual
                              *                                                                                 2b
Separation
7.74. Coordinate Aircraft
                              *                                                                                 2b
Movement
7.75. Apply Wake
                              *                                                                                 2b
Turbulence Separation
7.76. Issue Wake
Turbulence Cautionary         *                                                                                 2b
Advisories
7.77. Intersecting
                                                                                                                B
Runway Separation


                                                                 42
                           2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                               4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                       3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                      Tower                               Radar
References
                                          TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

7.78. Issue Runway
                                                                                                               2b
Exiting Instructions
7.79. Sequence Aircraft      *                                                                                 2b

7.80. Separate Aircraft      *                                                                                 2b
7.81. Simulated
Flameout (SFO)
                                                                                                               B
Arrivals/Emergency
Landing Procedures
7.82. Control Formation
                             *                                                                                 2b
Flights
7.83. Control Helicopter
                             *                                                                                 2b
Operations
7.84. Control VFR
                             *                                                                                 2b
Transitions
7.85. Issue Departure
Procedures/Standard
Terminal Arrival Routes
                                                                                                               2b
(STAR)/Standard
Instrument Departure
Procedure (SID)
7.86. Issue Line Up and
                                                                                                               2b
Wait Instructions
7.87. Issue Go-Around
                             *                                                                                 2b
Instructions
7.88. Control
                                                                                                               2b
Simultaneous Operations
7.89. Opposite Direction
                             *                                                                                 B
Operations
7.90. Issue Departure
                                                                                                               2b
Information
7.91. Issue Departure
                                                                                                               2b
Control Instructions
7.92. Reduced Same
                                                                                                               B
Runway Operation
7.93. Control Taxi
                                                                                                               2b
Operations
7.94. IFR Clearance
                                                                                                               B
Data
7.95. Formulate/Issue
                                                                                                               2b
Departure Clearances
7.96. Issue Amendments
                                                                                                               2b
to Clearances




                                                                43
                            2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                                4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                        3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                       Tower                               Radar
References
                                           TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

7.97. Issue Departure
Restrictions, Clearance
Void Times, Hold for                                                                                            2b
Release Times and
Release Times
7.98. VFR Release of
IFR Aircraft
7.99. Control Visual
                                                                                                                2b
Approaches
7.100. Circling
                                                                                                                B
Approaches
7.101. Final Approach
Abnormalities
7.102. Conduct Basic
Radar Service to VFR                                                                                            2b
Aircraft
7.103. Electronic Attack
                              *                                                                                 A
(EA)
7.104. Conduct Radar
                                                                                                                2b
Identification Procedures
7.105. Conduct Handoff
                                                                                                                2b
Procedures
7.106. Conduct Point-
                                                                                                                2b
out Procedures
7.107. Confirm Aircraft
                                                                                                                2b
Identification
7.108. Terminate Radar
                                                                                                                2b
Service
7.109. Vector Aircraft                                                                                          2b
7.110. Nonparticipating
Aircraft and Special
                                                                                                                B
Use/ATC Assigned
Airspace (ATCAA)
7.111. Obstruction
                                                                                                                B
Separation
7.112. Separate Aircraft
                                                                                                                2b
from Adjacent Airspace
7.113. Edge of Scope
Separation
7.114. Conduct Altitude
                                                                                                                2b
Verification Procedures




                                                                 44
                          2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                              4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                      3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                     Tower                               Radar
References
                                         TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

7.115. Issue Holding
                                                                                                              2b
Instructions
7.116. Holding Pattern
Surveillance
7.117. Issue
Approach/Arrival                                                                                              2b
Information
7.118. Issue Approach
                                                                                                              2b
Clearance
7.119. Issue Arrival
                                                                                                              2b
Instructions
7.120. Control
                                                                                                              2b
Instrument Approaches
7.121. VFR Practice
                                                                                                              B
Approaches
7.122. Radar
                                                                                                              B
Approaches
7.123. Control Radar
                                                                                                              2b
Departures
7.124. Control
Successive/Simultaneous                                                                                       2b
Departures
7.125. Parallel/Non-
Intersecting/Diverging                                                                                        B
Runways
7.126. No-Gyro
Procedures
7.127. Position
                                                                                                              B
Advisories
7.128. Control
                                                                                                              2b
Successive Approaches
7.129. Validate Mode C
                                                                                                              2b
Readouts
7.130. Altitude
Reservations (ALTRV)
7.131. Conduct Final
Approach Course                                                                                               2b
Intercept Procedures
7.132. Apply Merging
                                                                                                              2b
Target Procedures
7.133. Speed
                                                                                                              B
Adjustments
7.134. Airborne Radar
Approaches (ARA)




                                                               45
                           2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                               4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                       3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                      Tower                               Radar
References
                                          TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

7.135. Lowest Useable
Flight Levels
7.136. Flight Inspection     *                                                                                 A
7.137. Aircraft Carrying
                                                                                                               A
Dangerous Materials
7.138. Minimum Interval
Takeoff
(MITO)/Nonstandard
Formation/Cell
Operations
7.139. Military Assumes
Responsibility for
                                                                                                               A
Separation of Aircraft
(MARSA) Operations
7.140. Search and
                                                                                                               A
Rescue
7.141. Law Enforcement
                                                                                                               A
Operations
7.142. Med Evac/Air
                           *                                                                                   B
Evac Operations
7.143. Traffic
Management Unit
(TMU) Procedures
7.144. Apply Duty
                           *                                                                                   2b
Priority
7.145. Apply
                           *                                                                                   2b
Operational Priority
7.146. Unmanned
                           *                                                                                   A
Aircraft System (UAS)
8. NON-RADAR PROCEDURES
TR: FAAO JO 7110.65, AFI 13-204v3
8.1. Initial Separation of
Successive Departing                                                                                           B
Aircraft
8.2. Initial Separation of
Departing/Arriving                                                                                             B
Aircraft
8.3. Longitudinal
                                                                                                               B
Separation
8.4. Lateral Separation                                                                                        B

8.5. Vertical Separation                                                                                       B
8.6. Altitude Assignment
                                                                                                               B
Procedures



                                                                46
                            2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                                4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                        3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                       Tower                               Radar
References
                                           TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

8.7. Altitude
                                                                                                                B
Confirmation Procedures
8.8. Route Assignment
                                                                                                                B
Procedures
8.9. Protected Airspace
                                                                                                                B
Procedures
8.10. Radar Approaches
in a Non-Radar
Environment
8.11. Timed Approaches
8.12. Position Reporting
                                                                                                                B
Procedures
8.13. Holding
                                                                                                                B
Instructions
9. PRECISION (PAR)/SURVEILLANCE (ASR) APPROACH RADAR PROCEDURES
TR: FAAO JO 7110.65, AFI 13-204v3
9.1. Communications
Check
9.2. Lost
Communications
9.3. Transmission
Acknowledgement
9.4. Distance from
Touchdown
9.5. Altitude Information
9.6. Glidepath
Notification
9.7. Descent
Notification/Instructions
9.8. Course Guidance
9.9. Glidepath
Information
9.10. Trend Information
9.11. Visual Reference
Report
9.12. Elevation Failure
Procedures
9.13. Approach
Guidance Termination
9.14. Decision Height



                                                                 47
                          2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                                  4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                      3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                     Tower                                Radar
References
                                         TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD      Trainee   Trainer

9.15. Position
Advisories
9.16. PAR for Approach
Monitoring
10. CREW RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (CRM)
TR: AFI 11-290, AT-M-06A, FAAO JO 7110.65
10.1. CRM Terminology       *                                                                                     A
10.2. Situational
                            *                                                                                     A
Awareness
10.3. Group Dynamics        *                                                                                     A

10.4. Communications        *                                                                                     A

10.5. Risk Management       *                                                                                     A

10.6. Decision Making       *                                                                                     A
10.7. Workload
                          *                                                                                       A
Management
10.8. Stress
                          *                                                                                       A
Management/Awareness
10.9. Application of
                          *                                                                                       A
CRM Principles
11. DOD ATC CONTINGENCY/COMBAT OPERATIONS
TR: AFI 10-201, AFI 10-2501, AFI 13-204v3, AFTTP 3-4.4, CBTL, Joint Pub 3-52, AFTTP(I) 3-2.17, AFTTP(I) 3-2.23,
FAAO JO 7610.4
11.1. ATC Combat
                          *                                                                                       A
Readiness Requirements
11.2. Basic Terminology
                          *                                                                                       A
/ Fundamental Concepts
11.3. Minimum ATC
                          *                                                                                       A
Mobility Requirements
11.4. Types of ATC
                          *                                                                                       A
Deployments/Exercises
11.5. Deployable
Airfield Operations       *                                                                                       A
Equipment
11.6. Air Base Defense
                          *
Procedures
11.7. Emergency
Security Control of Air
                          *
Traffic (ESCAT)
Procedures




                                                               48
                           2.Core Tasks




                                                                                                               4. 3-Level
1. Tasks,                                       3. Certification for On-the-Job Training (OJT)
Knowledge and                                      Tower                               Radar
References
                                          TSD   TCD   Trainee        Trainer   TSD   TCD   Trainee   Trainer

11.8. Aeronautical
Information Publications     *                                                                                 A
(AIP)
11.9. Special
Instructions                 *                                                                                 A
(SPINS)/Frag Orders
11.10. Airspace Control
                             *                                                                                 A
Plan (ACP)
11.11. Airspace Control
                             *                                                                                 A
Order (ACO)
11.12. Air Tasking
                             *                                                                                 A
Order (ATO)
11.13. Airspace
Coordinating Measure         *                                                                                 A
(ACM)
11.14. Tactical
Arrival/Departure                                                                                              A
Procedures


      TRANSCRIBE records IAW AFI 36-2201 paragraph 6.9.6.2.




                                                                49
     This portion of STS is for certifying tasks contained in the ATC Craftsman (7-Level) ADLS
     course.




                                                                                                 7-LVL
                                                            CERTIFICATIONS
ATC CRAFTSMAN (7-level) TASKS,
KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNICAL REFERENCES
                                                                        Trainee    Trainer
                                                 TSD          TCD
                                                                        Initials   Initials
1. AOF STRUCTURE

1.1. ATC Supervision Chain
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v1 & v3

1.2. ATC Management Responsibilities
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v1 & v3

1.3. MAJCOM/Higher Headquarters Roles
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v1 & v2

2. FACILITY OPERATIONS

2.1. Local Operating Procedures
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v3

2.2. Ready Reference File Information
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v3

2.3. Recorder/Tape Procedures
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v3

2.4. Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) Procedures
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 11-208 (I); AFI 13-204v3

2.5. Facility Security
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v3
2.6. Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
(ATCALS) Procedures                                                                              B
TR: AFI 13-204v3; AFI 13-216
2.7. Equipment Outage Procedures
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v3

2.8. Documenting Facility Events
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v3

2.9. Facility Manning Requirements
                                                                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v3




                                                50
2.10 Unit Manning Document (UMD)
                                                           B
TR: AFI 36-2101; AFCSM 36-699

2.11. Unit Manpower Personnel Roster (UMPR)
                                                           B
TR: AFCSM 36-699
2.12. Status of Resources and Training System
(SORTS)                                                    B
TR: AFI 10-201
2.13. Flight Check Operating Procedures
TR: AFMAN 11-225(I); FAAO 8200.1C; FAAO                    B
7110.65
3. TRAINING PROGRAMS

3.1. ATC Training Concepts and Procedures
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v3
3.2. Procedures for Award of SEIs, Skill Levels and
AFSC and SDAP
                                                           B
TR: AFI 36-2101; AFI 13-204v3; AF Enlisted
Classification Directory
3.3. AFSC Withdrawal and Reclassification
Determination/Process                                      B
TR: AFI 13-204v3; AFI 36-2101
3.4. Training Review Board (TRB) Procedures
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v3

4. CREW SUPERVISION

4.1. Watch Supervisor Requirements
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v3
4.2. Watch Supervisor Authority, Duties and
Responsibilities                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v3
4.3. Crew/Facility Relief Procedures
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v3; FAAO JO 7110.65

4.4. Newcomer Indoctrination Procedures
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204

4.5. Duties Not to Include Controlling (DNIC)
Procedures                                                 B
TR: AFI 48-123; AFI 13-204v3
4.6. Controller Proficiency Requirements
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v3
4.7. Foundations of Crew Resource Management
(CRM)
TR: Crew Resource Management: An Introductory              B
Handbook published by the FAA; FAA Advisory
Circular 120-51E; AT-M-06a; AFI 11-290.




                                                      51
4.8. Personnel Safety
TR: AFI 91-202; AFI 91-204; AFI 91-301; AFI 90-202;        B
AFPD 91-2
5. QUALITY ASSURANCE
5.1. Air Traffic Control Certification Process
TR: AFI 13-204v2; CFR Part 65 Subpart A & B; FAAO          B
7220.1B
5.2. Controller Suspension and Special Evaluation
Procedures                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v2
5.3. 3-level Task Evaluation Process
                                                           B
TR: AFI 36-2201; CFETP

5.4. Facility Evaluation Procedures
TR: AFI 13-204v2; FAAO 7220.1B; CFR Part 65                B
Subpart A& B

5.5. AF Quality Assurance Programs and Procedures
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v2; AFI 90-201

5.6. Airfield Operations Board (AOB)
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v3

6. EMERGENCY PROCEDURES

6.1. Hazardous Air Traffic Reporting (HATR)
Procedures                                                 B
TR: AFI 13-204v2; AFI 91-202; AF IMT 651
6.2. Military Facility Deviation (MFD) Procedures
                                                           B
TR: FAAO 7210.56

6.3. Emergency/Contingency Procedures
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v3; FAAO JO 7110.65

6.4. Mishap Prevention and Reporting Procedures
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v2 & v3; AFI 91-202

6.5. Emergency Checklists
                                                           B
TR: AFI 13-204v3

6.6. Mid-air Collision Avoidance Program (MACA)
                                                           B
TR: AIM; AFI 13-204v2; AFI 91-202

7. WARTIME AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL
7.1. Deployable ATCALS (DATCALS)
TR: AF TTP 3-4.4; AFI 10-403; AFI 10-401; AFI 10-          B
414
7.2. Unit Type Codes (UTC)
                                                           B
TR: AF TTP 3-4.4; AFI 10-401




                                                      52
7.3. Mobility Terms
                                                                                                   B
TR: AF TTP 3.4-4; AFI 10-403; AFI 10-401
7.4. Concept of Air and Space Expeditionary Force
(AEF) as it Relates to Air Traffic Control                                                         B
TR: AFI 10-403; AFI 10-401; AFI 10-244
7.5. AEF UTC Reporting Tool (ART)
                                                                                                   B
TR: AFI 10-401; AFI 10-403; AFI 10-244


     NOTE: This STS is a result of the 17-20 July 2012 1C1X1 STRT. It was originally developed
     as a CTS and has not been corrected to an STS. No line items or proficiency codes have been
     changed from the CFETP published 30 September 2010. This STS was approved by the 1C1X1
     AFCFM, Chief Joseph Kirk on 27 September 2012 and will be used for course development for
     the E3ACW1C171 XXXX/Air Traffic Control Craftsman Course.




                                                    53
                                           Section B

                                    Course Objective List

A detailed listing of AETC technical training course objectives may be obtained by written
request to the 334 TRS/TRR at Keesler AFB MS.




                                              54
                                           Section C

                                       Support Materials

1. Support documents/courses:

Document                           Duty Position                           Developer
STS                                ATC Operator                           HQ AFFSA
ATCTS1                       ATC Operator/Management                      HQ AFFSA
ATC CBTL1                    ATC Operator/Management                      HQ AFFSA
E6ACW1C171 XXXX               Craftsman (7-skill level)
1
  ATCTS (ATC Training Series) and ATC CBTL (ATC Computer Based Training Library) is
located and downloadable on the AFFSA ATC Training Community of Practice. It is located at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?filter=OO-OP-AF-20 and is also
accessible via the AF Portal (https://www.my.af.mil/).

Course Number                         Course Title                         Developer
N/A                             Air Force Trainer’s Course                 360th TSS
N/A                                Certification Guides                  Each Facility

2. Training Publications. AFI 13-204v3, Airfield Operations Procedures & Programs, outlines
policies, procedures and responsibilities for training publications as OJT support materials.
These support materials provide effective management devices for training and evaluation
feedback of the entire training program.




                                               55
                                          Section D

                                   Training Course Index

1. Training Course References. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available
for the specialties and shows how the courses are used by each MAJCOM in their career field
training programs. Refer to Air Force Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA)
located at the following URL: https://etca.randolph.af.mil/default1.asp.

                                     Required Courses

Resident Courses
Course Number                        Course Title                            Location

E3ABR1C131 XXXX                ATC Apprentice Course                      Keesler AFB
E6ACW1C171 XXXX                Craftsman (7-skill level)                       Off-site
E3AZR1C191 XXXX                 ATC Chief Controller                      Keesler AFB

                                  Recommended Courses

E3OZR13M3 XXXX       Military Airspace Management                        Keesler AFB
E5AZG1C171 XXXX Introduction to US Air Force Flight Procedures         Oklahoma City
ACC AOCIQTASP UIT AOC Initial Qualification Training,                   Hurlburt Field
                            Airspace Course
E3AZR1C171 XXXX         ATC Systems Specialist                            Keesler AFB


2. Air University Courses. CDCs are not available for this AFSC.




                                              56
                                         Section E

                             MAJCOM Unique Requirements

USAFE:

ATC Mode S - Elementary Surveillance Training Course

ICAO - Annex 1 Personnel Licensing
       Annex 2 Rules of the Air
       Annex 3 Meteorological Service for International Air Navigation
       Annex 6 Operation of Aircraft
       Annex 10 Aeronautical Telecommunications
       Annex 11 Air Traffic Services
       Annex 14 Aerodromes
       Annex 17 Security
       Doc 4444 Air Traffic Management
       Doc 8400 ICAO Abbreviations and Codes




                                             57
