DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                     CFETP 3D0X3
Headquarters US Air Force                                                         Parts I and II
Washington, DC 20330-1030                                                       01 March 2014




                                 AFSC 3D0X3

                               CYBER SURETY




                       BASIC                                           SENIOR




                                            MASTER




                 CAREER FIELD EDUCATION
                   AND TRAINING PLAN
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
                                             CYBER SURETY
                                              AFSC 3D0X3
                               CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN
                                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


PART I

Preface .......................................................................................................................................................... 3

Abbreviations/Terms Explained .................................................................................................................... 4

Section A - General Information .................................................................................................................. 12
Purpose of the CFETP
Use of the CFETP
Coordination and Approval of the CFETP

Section B - Career Field Progression and Information ............................................................................... 14
Specialty Description
       Cyber Surety Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman (3D033/3D053/3D073)
       Operations Superintendent
       Chief Enlisted Managers (CEM)
       MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM) for Cyber Operations
       Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) for the Cyber Operations Career Field
Skills and Career Progression
       3D0X3 Career Path Chart
Training Decisions
Community College of the Air Force Academic Programs
Career Field Path
       3D0X3 Cyber Surety Career Path Table

Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements............................................................................................ 24
Purpose
Specialty Qualification Requirements
      Apprentice (3-Level) Training
      Journeyman (5-Level) Training
      Craftsman (7-Level) Training
      Superintendent (9-Level) Training

Section D - Resource Constraints ............................................................................................................... 28
Purpose
Apprentice (3-Level) Training
Journeyman (5-Level) Training
Craftsman (7-Level) Training

Section E - Transition Training Guide ......................................................................................................... 28




                                                                                 i
Part II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard ..................................................................................................... 29

Section B - Course Objective List ............................................................................................................... 81

Section C - Support Materials ..................................................................................................................... 81
Air Force Job Qualification Standards and Air Force Qualification Training Packages

Section D - Training Course Index .............................................................................................................. 81
Purpose
Air Force In-Residence Courses
Air University Courses
Exportable Courses

Section E – MAJCOM-Unique Requirements ............................................................................................. 81




OPR: 336 TRS/TRR
Approved By: CMSgt Robert B. Jackson AFCFM (AF/A3CF/A6CF)
Supersedes CFETP 3D0X3, dated 01 November 2011
Pages: 81




                                                                          ii
                                            CYBER SURETY
                                             AFSC 3D0X3

                    CAREER FIELD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PLAN

PART I

Preface

1. The changing Command, Control, Communications, Computer, and Intelligence (C4I) and Air and
Space Expeditionary Aerospace Forces (AEF) environments require vision, preparation, and attention to
ensure people have the right skills and tools to deliver the C4I capabilities and the support required by the
war fighter in meeting the Air Force mission of today and the vision of the future. Declining resources,
expanding diversity of mission, and ever-changing technologies in the Air Force are impacting the
availability of our most valuable resource--people. These factors will continue to exist in the future,
making it essential for the workforce to be effectively and efficiently trained to perform duties within each
skill level of an Air Force Specialty (AFS). To meet the challenges of tomorrow, the Air Force must place
a greater emphasis on career field training. This Cyber Surety Career Field Education and Training Plan
(CFETP) is a comprehensive core training document that identifies life-cycle training/education
requirements, support resources, and minimum core task requirements for the 3D0X3 specialty. The plan
is a "training road map" for the career field. It provides personnel a clear career path to success and
makes career field training identifiable, measurable, and budget defensible.
2. This CFETP is a comprehensive education and training document that identifies life cycle education
and training requirements, training support resources and minimum core task requirements for this
specialty. The CFETP documents the career field training program and consists of two parts.
Management uses both parts in conjunction with Training Business Area (TBA) to plan, manage and
control training within the career field. NOTE: Civilians occupying associated positions will use Part II to
support duty position qualification training.
2.1. Part I provides information necessary for overall management of the specialty. Section A explains
how everyone will use the plan; Section B identifies career field progression information, duties and
responsibilities, training strategies and career field path; Section C associates each level with specialty
qualifications (knowledge, education, experience, training and other); Section D indicates resource
constraints (e.g., funds, manpower, equipment, facilities); and Section E identifies transition training guide
requirements for SSgt through MSgt.
2.2. Part II includes the following: Section A identifies the Specialty Training Standard (STS) and includes
duties, tasks, Training References (TRs) to support training, AETC-conducted training, wartime course
and core task and correspondence course requirements. Section B contains the Course Objectives List
(COL) and training standards supervisors will use to determine if Airmen satisfied training requirements;
Section C identifies available support materials (e.g., Qualification Training Package, which may be
developed to support proficiency training); Section D identifies a training course index supervisors can
use to determine resources available to support training. Included here are both mandatory and optional
courses; and Section E identifies MAJCOM-unique training requirements supervisors can use to
determine additional training required for the associated qualification needs. At unit level, supervisors
and trainers will use Part II to identify, plan and conduct training commensurate with the overall goals of
this plan.
3. Use of the guidance provided in this CFETP provides the foundation for effective and efficient training
for individuals in this career field at the appropriate points in their careers. This plan enables the Air
Force to train today's work force for tomorrow's jobs.




                                                      3
                                  Abbreviations/Terms Explained

This section provides a common understanding of the terms that apply to the Cyber Surety Career Field
and Education Training Plan.

Advanced Training (AT). A formal course of training that leads to a technical or supervisory level of an
AFS. Training is for selected Airmen at the advanced level of an AFS.
Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF). The AEF is the Air Force’s methodology for organizing,
training, equipping, and sustaining rapidly responsive air and space forces to meet defense strategy
requirements. Through the AEF, consisting of enabler and tempo banded capabilities, the Air Force
supports defense strategy requirements using a combination of both permanently assigned and rotational
(allocated) forces.
Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF). The AETF is the Air Force’s primary warfighting
organization and the means by which we present forces to a Joint Forces Commander (JFC). When
established, AETFs will form up under the designated Air Force component headquarters.
Air Education Training Command (AETC). Responsible for the recruiting, training and education of Air
Force personnel. AETC also provides pre-commissioning, professional military and continuing education.
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Representative appointed by the respective HQ USAF
Deputy Chief of Staff or Under Secretariat to ensure that assigned Air Force specialties are trained and
utilized to support Air Force mission requirements.
Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD). The official directory for all military enlisted
classification descriptions, codes, and identifiers. Establishes the occupational structure of the Air Force
enlisted force. The occupational structure is flexible to permit enlisted personnel to specialize and
develop their skills and abilities while allowing the Air Force to meet changing mission requirements.
Individual enlisted personnel have a joint responsibility with commanders and supervisors at all levels to
fully develop their abilities consistent with Air Force needs and within the established patterns of
specialization.
Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS). A comprehensive task list that describes a particular
job type or duty position. Supervisors use the AFJQS to document task qualification. The tasks on
AFJQSs are common to all persons serving in the described duty position.
Air Force Qualification Training Package (AFQTP). An instructional course designed for use at the
unit to qualify or aid qualification in a duty position, program, or on a piece of equipment. It may be
printed, computer-based, or other audiovisual media.
Air Force Specialty (AFS). A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require common
qualifications.
Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP). AFTTPs describe the proper employment of
specific Air Force assets, individually or in concert with other assets, to accomplish detailed objectives.
Air University Associate-to-Baccalaureate Cooperative (AU ABC). Allows Airmen to turn a
Community College of the Air Force Associates Degree into a Bachelors Degree from an accredited
university. The ABC program has established a partnership with various civilian higher-education
institutions to offer four-year degree opportunities via distance learning. The participating schools will
accept all of the credits earned by Airmen who have attained a CCAF degree and apply them to a
Bachelors degree related to their Air Force specialty.
Air University/ AFCDA (Air Force Career Development Academy). The result of a reorganization of
Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning (AFIADL); provides access to the Extension Course
Institute.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). A CFETP is a comprehensive core training
document that identifies: life-cycle education and training requirements; training support resources; and
minimum core task requirements for a specialty. The CFETP aims to give personnel a clear path and


                                                      4
instill a sense of industry in career field training. CFETPs are officially posted at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/.
Certification. A formal indication of an individual’s ability to perform a task to required standards.
Certifying Official. A person assigned by the commander to determine an individual’s ability to perform
a task to required standards.
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Task Qualification
Training (TQT). CBRNE TQT ensures personnel maintain proficiency in performing mission-critical tasks
in a CBRNE environment. See AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning
and Operations, and AFMAN 10-2602, Nuclear, Biological, Chemical and Conventional (NBCC) Defense
Operations and Standards, for additional information/requirements.
Chief Enlisted Manager (CEM) Code. CEM codes identify all chief master sergeant positions in the
Enlisted Classification Structure. They also identify chief master sergeants who, through extensive
experience and training, have demonstrated managerial ability to plan, direct, coordinate, implement, and
control a wide range of work activity. Some managerial duties and responsibilities that are common to all
chief enlisted managers are: managing and directing personnel resource activities; interpreting and
enforcing policy and applicable directives; establishing control procedures to meet work goals and
standards; recommending or initiating actions to improve functional operation efficiency; planning and
programming work commitments and schedules; developing plans regarding facilities, supplies, and
equipment procurement and maintenance.
Cloud Computing. The use of computing resources (hardware and software) that are delivered as a
service over a network (typically the Internet).
Collaboration. Collaboration is the interaction among two or more individuals encompassing a variety of
behaviors, including communication, information sharing, coordination, cooperation, problem-solving and
negotiation.
Collaborative Tools. Collaborative tools consist of various web-based technologies including advanced
white boarding, groupware, and facilitation. Collaborative capabilities assist significantly with managing
information throughout its life cycle and enable Air Force members to perform most office-oriented and
operational communication tasks from their desktops.
Command, Control, Communications, Computer, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
(C4ISR). Integrated systems of doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment,
facilities, and communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and control
through all phases of the operational continuum. C4 systems include base visual information support
systems.
Computer Based Training (CBT). A forum for training in which the student learns via a computer
terminal. It is an especially effective training tool that allows the students to practice applications while
they learn.
Content Management . A set of processes and technologies supporting the evolutionary life cycle of
digital information. This digital information is often referred to as content or, to be precise, digital content.
Digital content may take the form of text, such as documents, multimedia files, such as audio or video
files, or any other file type that follows a content life cycle that requires management.
Continuation Training. Additional advanced training that exceeds the minimum upgrade training
requirements and emphasizes present or future duty assignments.
Core Task. A task AFCFMs identify as a minimum qualification requirement for everyone within an
AFSC, regardless of duty position. Core task may be specified for a particular skill level or in general
across the AFSC. Guidance for using core task can be found in the applicable CFETP narrative.
Course Objective List (COL). A publication derived from initial/advanced skills Course Training
Standard (CTS), identifying the tasks and knowledge requirements and respective standards provided to
achieve a 3-skill level in this career field. Supervisors use the COL to assist in conducting graduate
evaluations in accordance with AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.



                                                        5
Course Training Standard (CTS). A standard developed for all courses not governed by an STS,
including specialized training packages and computer-based training courses.
Critical Tasks. Critical Tasks are tasks that require specific training and certification above and beyond
other tasks. Tasks may be defined as critical either through AFI, Technical Orders, higher headquarters,
or at any level in the unit.
Cross Utilization Training. Training on non-duty AFSC specific tasks.
Cyberspace. A global domain within the information environment consisting of the interdependent
network of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet, telecommunications networks,
computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers.
Cyberspace Operations. The employment of cyber capabilities where the primary purpose is to achieve
objectives in or through cyberspace. Such operations include computer network operations and activities
to operate and defend the global information grid (GIG).
Data Management. The process of planning, coordinating, sharing, and controlling organizations’ data
resources.
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU). Air Force subdivisions directly subordinate to the CSAF. A DRU performs
a mission that does not fit into any of the MAJCOMs. A DRU has many of the same administrative and
organizational responsibilities as a MAJCOM (Example of a DRU: USAF Academy).
Document Management . The process of managing documents through their life cycle; from inception
through creation, review, storage, dissemination, and archival or deletion. Document management can
also be a database system to organize stored documents, or a search mechanism to quickly find specific
documents.
DoD Directive 8570.01 Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce Management.
Provides guidance and procedures for the training, certification, and management of the DoD workforce
conducting Information Assurance (IA) functions in assigned duty positions.
Duty Position Tasks. The tasks assigned to an individual for the position currently held. These include,
as a minimum, all core tasks that correspond to the duty position as directed by the AFCFM or MFM, and
tasks assigned by the supervisor.
Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA). Located at https://etca.randolph.af.mil, the
ETCA contains specific MAJCOM procedures, fund cite instructions, reporting instructions, and listings for
those formal courses the MAJCOMs or FOAs conduct or manage. The ETCA contains courses the Air
Force and reserve forces conduct or administer and serves as a reference for the Air Force, DoD, other
military services, government agencies, and security assistance programs.
Enlisted Specialty Training (EST). A mix of formal training (technical school) and informal training (on-
the-job) to qualify and upgrade Airmen in each skill level of a specialty.
Enterprise. The entire range of communications/networking within garrison and tactical realms to include
voice, video, data, imagery and sensor.
Enterprise Information Management (EIM). Encompasses a set of strategies for organizational
management of all aspects of enterprise data as information assets. The proper models, data
architecture, application architecture, and integration vision enables using the “enterprise information
asset” for strategic analysis, customer-centricity, performance and productivity analytics, and
personalization, eventually providing a means for transitioning from an operational, line-of-business
oriented application environment to an intelligent, learning, and agile organization.
Enterprise Information System (EIS). A portfolio of services that bring about Enterprise Information
Management (EIM) capabilities.
Expeditionary Aerospace Force (EAF). The EAF concept is how the Air Force will organize, train,
equip, and sustain itself by creating a mindset and cultural state that embraces the unique characteristics
of aerospace power – range, speed, flexibility, precision – to meet the national security challenges of the
21st Century.



                                                      6
Exportable Training. Additional training via computer assisted, paper text, interactive video, or other
necessary means to supplement training.
Field Operating Agency (FOA). FOAs are subdivisions of the Air Force directly subordinate to a
headquarters US Air Force functional manager. An FOA performs field activities beyond the scope of any
of the MAJCOMs. The activities are specialized or associated with an Air Force-wide mission (Example
of a FOA is the Air Force Weather Agency).
Field Training. Technical, operator, and other training that either a field training detachment or field
training team conducts at operational locations on specific systems and associated direct-support
equipment for maintenance and aircrew personnel.
Functional Area Manager (FAM). The individual accountable for the management and oversight of all
personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support the operational planning and
execution. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing and reviewing policy; developing,
managing, and maintaining Unit Type Codes (UTC); developing criteria for and monitoring readiness
reporting; force posturing; and analysis. At each level of responsibility (Headquarters Air Force,
MAJCOM, Air Component, FOA, DRU, and Unit), the FAM should be the most highly knowledgeable and
experienced person within the functional area and have the widest range of visibility over the functional
area readiness and capability issues.
Functional Manager . An individual assigned collateral responsibility for training, classification,
utilization, and career development of enlisted personnel. AFSC Functional Managers exist at MAJCOM,
NAF and base level.
Global Command and Control System (GCCS). An automated information system designed to support
deliberate and crisis planning with the use of an integrated set of analytic tools and the flexible data
transfer capabilities. GCCS will become the single C4I system to support the warfighter from foxhole to
command post.
Global Combat Support System – Air Force (GCSS-AF). An enterprise infrastructure program
established to develop, integrate, and deploy combat support information capabilities. The mission of
GCSS-AF is to provide timely, accurate, and trusted Agile Combat Support (ACS) information to Joint and
Air Force commanders, their staffs, and ACS personnel at all ranks and echelons, with the appropriate
level of security needed to execute the Air Force mission throughout the spectrum of military operations.
GCSS-AF is the means by which ACS functional systems will be modernized and integrated to improve
business processes supported on a single robust network-centric infrastructure. In addition to integrating
combat support applications, GCSS-AF also provides core enterprise services such as a common user
presentation through the AF Portal, Enterprise Information Management (Workflow, Records
Management, Document Management, Knowledge Management, and Collaboration), and an enterprise
data warehouse.
Global Information Grid (GIG). The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information capabilities,
associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing, disseminating and managing
information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support personnel. The GIG includes all
owned and leased communications and computing systems and services, software (including
applications), data, security services, and other associated services necessary to achieve Information
Superiority. The GIG supports all Department of Defense, National Security, and related Intelligence
community missions and functions (strategic, operational, tactical, and business), in war and in peace.
The GIG provides capabilities from all operating locations (bases, posts, camps, stations, facilities, mobile
platforms, and deployed sites). The GIG provides interfaces to coalition, allied, and non-DOD users and
systems.
Go/No-Go. The “Go” is the stage at which a trainee has gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience
to perform the tasks without supervision, meeting the task standard. “No-Go” is the stage at which the
trainee has not gained enough skill, knowledge, and experience to perform task without supervision, does
not meet task standard.
Individual Training Plan (ITP). Use Training Business Area (TBA) to document training. TBA reflects
past and current qualifications, and is used to determine training requirements. It is intended to be a



                                                      7
complete history of past training and current qualifications. Supervisors will ensure all documentation is
accurate and comprehensive.
Information Life Cycle. Typically characterized as creation or collection, processing, dissemination, use,
storage, protection, and disposition.
Information Management (IM). The planning, budgeting, manipulating, and controlling of information
throughout its life cycle. Joint Publication 3-0, Joint Operations, further defines IM as the function of
managing an organization’s information resources by the handling of knowledge acquired by one or many
different individuals and organizations in a way that optimizes access by all who have a share in that
knowledge or a right to that knowledge.
Information Resources Management (IRM). The process of managing information resources to
accomplish agency missions and to improve agency performance (e.g., the reduction of
information collection burdens on the public).
Information Systems (IS). Set of information resources organized for the collection, storage,
processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, disposition, display, or transmission of information.
Initial Skills Training. A formal school course that results in an AFSC 3-skill level award for enlisted or
mandatory upgrade training to qualified officers.
Instructional System Development (ISD). A deliberate and orderly (but flexible) process for planning,
developing, implementing, and managing instructional systems. It ensures personnel are taught in a cost
efficient way to become educated on the knowledge, skills, and abilities essential for successful job
performance.
Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS). JTRS will link the power of the Global Information Grid (GIG) to
the warfighter in applying fire effects and achieving overall battlefield superiority. By developing and
implementing an open architecture of cutting-edge radio waveform technology, multiple radio types (e.g.,
handheld, ground-mobile, airborne, maritime, etc.) are now allowed to communicate with one another.
The ultimate goal is to produce a family of interoperable, modular, software-defined radios that operate as
nodes in a network to ensure secure wireless communication and networking services for mobile and
fixed forces. These goals extend to U.S. allies, joint and coalition partners, and disaster response
personnel.
Knowledge. Information from multiple domains that has been synthesized, through inference or
deduction, into meaning or understanding that was not previously known. This includes: explicit
knowledge, which can be easily articulated, codified, and stored; and tacit knowledge, which is based on
personal experience, expertise, and judgment. Tacit knowledge is more challenging to capture and share
than explicit knowledge.
Knowledge Management (KM). Handling, directing, governing, or controlling of natural knowledge
processes within an organization in order to achieve the goals and objectives of the organization.
Knowledge Operations (KO). Application and adaptation of Knowledge Management (KM) into
daily AF operations to enable information/decision superiority. KO leverages the interaction of people,
processes, and EIS technologies to capture, store, organize, share, and control tacit and explicit
knowledge, ensuring all mission execution processes have access to relevant cross-functional
information in a collaborative, timely, and contextual manner.
Knowledge Training. Training used to provide a base of knowledge for task performance. It may also
be used in lieu of task performance when the training capability does not exist. Learning gained through
knowledge rather than hands-on experience.
Major Command (MAJCOM). A MAJCOM represents a major Air Force subdivision having a specific
portion of the Air Force mission. Each MAJCOM is directly subordinate to HQ USAF. MAJCOMs are
interrelated and complementary, providing offensive, defensive, and support elements.
Master Task Listing (MTL). A comprehensive list (100%) of all tasks performed within a work center and
consisting of the current CFETP or AFJQS and locally developed AF Forms 797 (as a minimum). Should
include tasks required for deployment and/or UTC requirements.



                                                      8
Master Training Plan (MTP). Employs a strategy for ensuring the completion of all work center job
requirements by using a MTL and provides milestones for task, CDC completion, and prioritizes
deployment/UTC, home station training tasks, upgrade, and qualification tasks.
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR). A detailed report showing the results of an occupational survey
of tasks performed within a particular AFSC.
On-the-Job Training (OJT). Hands-on, over-the-shoulder training conducted to certify personnel in both
upgrade (skill level award) and job qualification (duty position) training.
Proficiency Training. Additional training, either in-residence or exportable advanced training courses, or
on-the-job training, provided to personnel to increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum
required for upgrade.
Qualification Training. Hands-on, task performance based training designed to qualify Airmen in a
specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process
and is designed to provide skills training required to do the job.
Records Management. The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting, and other
managerial activities involved in records creation, maintenance and use, and disposition in order to
achieve adequate and proper documentation of the policies and transactions of the Federal Government
and effective and economical management of agency operations.
Resource Constraints. Resource deficiencies (such as money, facilities, time, manpower, and
equipment) that preclude desired training from being delivered.
Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). A services oriented architecture (SOA) environment makes it
easier and faster to build and deploy information capabilities that directly serve the needs of the Air Force.
SOA is an information technology environment where the following occur: Mission and business
processes are supported by information assets. Information assets are delivered to consumers through
content delivery services. Content delivery services and other services interact to support process
threads or to deliver information assets. Core services, such as infrastructure and presentation services,
are independent of the content delivery services. Net-centric protocols and services allow federating and
re-using both content delivery and core services for multiple users, domains, and information sources.
Specialized Training Package and COMSEC Qualification Training Package. A composite of lesson
plans, test material, instructions, policy, doctrine and procedures necessary to conduct training. These
packages are prepared by AETC, validated by CYSS COMSEC policy branch and administered by
qualified communications security (COMSEC) maintenance personnel.
Specialty Training Requirements Team. A meeting chaired by the AFCFM with MAJCOM FMs, AETC
Training Managers, Subject Matter Experts (SME) and HQ AETC Occupational Analysis Division (OAD)
in attendance. Typically held three months prior to a Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) to
finalize any CFETP changes or enlisted classification directory descriptions.
Specialty Training Standard (STS). An Air Force publication that describes an Air Force specialty in
terms of tasks and knowledge that an Airman in that specialty may be expected to perform or to know on
the job. Also identifies the training provided to achieve a 3-, 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level within an enlisted AFS. It
further serves as a contract between AETC and the functional user to show which of the overall training
requirements for an Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) are taught in formal schools and correspondence
courses.
Standard. An exact value, a physical entity, or an abstract concept established and defined by authority,
custom, or common consent to serve as a reference, model, or rule in measuring quantities or qualities,
establishing practices or procedures, or evaluating results. It is a fixed quantity or quality.
System Training Plan (STP). A living document that explains what training is needed for a system and
how to obtain the training.
Task Module (TM). A group of tasks performed together within an AFS that require common knowledge,
skills, and abilities. TMs are identified by an identification code and a statement.




                                                        9
Total Force. All collective components (active, reserve, guard, and civilian elements) of the United
States Air Force.
Training Advisory Group (TAG). Chaired by the AFCFM and attended by the MAJCOM, selected DRU
and FOA functional managers. The TAG sets training goals and priorities, reviews training programs and
evaluates emerging training technologies. The group meets, as required, to prioritize training product
development.
Training Business Area (TBA). A web-based training application that provides Air Force war fighters
with global, real-time visibility into qualifications, certifications and training status of communications
professionals. TBA supports base, wing and work center training management activities by
automating business processes and capabilities to eliminate paper-based practices. The system
centralizes management of training task data, provides user access to CFETPs/JQSs and increases
security through a single AF Portal log on.
Training Capability. The ability of a unit or base to provide training. Authorities consider the availability
of equipment, qualified trainers, and study reference materials, and so on in determining a unit's training
capability.
Training Planning Team (TPT). Comprised of the same personnel as a U&TW, TPTs are more
intimately involved in training development and the range of issues examined is greater than in the U&TW
forum.
Training Requirements Analysis (TRA). A detailed analysis of tasks for a particular AFSC to be
included in the training decision process.
Training Setting. The type of forum in which training is provided (formal resident school, on-the-job, field
training, mobile training team, self-study, etc.).
Trusted Thin Client (TTC). A computer or a computer program which depends on another computer (or
server) to fulfill its traditional computational roles while utilizing security policy to prevent cross domain
contamination.
Unit Type Code (UTC). A five-character alphanumeric code identifying a specific force package of
personnel and/or equipment. The UTC is the means for linking logistics and manpower details within a
unit type and is used to communicate force data. The UTC represents a wartime capability designed to
fill a valid contingency requirement.
Upgrade Training. Training that leads to the award of a higher skill level.
Utilization and Training Pattern. A depiction of the training provided to and the jobs performed by
personnel throughout their tenure within a career field or AFS. There are two types of patterns: 1)
Current pattern, which is based on the training provided to incumbents and the jobs to which they have
been and are assigned; and 2) Alternate pattern, which considers proposed changes in manpower,
personnel, and training policies.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW). A forum of the AFCFM, MAJCOM Functional Managers,
subject matter experts (SME), and AETC training personnel that determines career ladder training
requirements.
Wartime Tasks. Those tasks that must be taught when courses are accelerated in a wartime
environment. In response to a wartime scenario, these tasks will be taught in the 3- level course in a
streamlined training environment. These tasks are only for those career fields that still need them applied
to their schoolhouse tasks.
Workflow. A series of steps necessary for the initiation, tracking and delivery of services or outputs with
the capability to cut across existing or future organizational boundaries. Furthermore, web-based
workflow products allow electronic coordination, staffing, and task management of documents and files.
They are relational to an electronic version of the Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) and other AF/DoD forms
used for routing/collection of information. Automation provides the capability to suspense and track
correspondence through the workflow process and provides action officers and document originators
status on their packages. Provides users the capabilities to comply with structured electronic workflow



                                                      10
processes and the flexibility to create/develop ad hoc workflow courses of actions. Future use of
standardized EIM tools will enhance usability and eliminate legacy methods.




                                                   11
Section A - General Information
1. Purpose of the CFETP. This CFETP provides the information necessary for AFCFMs, MAJCOM
Functional Managers (MFM), commanders, training managers, supervisors and trainers to plan, develop,
manage and conduct an effective and efficient career field training program. The plan outlines the initial
skills, upgrade, qualification, advanced and proficiency training those individuals in AFSC 3D0X3 should
receive in order to develop and progress throughout their careers. Initial skills training is the AFS specific
training an individual receives upon entry into the AF or upon retraining into this specialty for award of the
3-skill level. This training is provided by the 336th Training Squadron (TRS) at Keesler AFB, MS.
Upgrade training identifies the mandatory courses, task qualification requirements, Career Development
Course (CDC) completion and correspondence courses required for award of the 5-, 7-, or 9-skill level.
Qualification training is actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman in a
specific duty position. This training program occurs both during and after the upgrade training process. It
is designed to provide the performance skills and knowledge required to do the job. Advanced training is
formal specialty training used for selected airmen. Proficiency training is additional training, either in-
residence or exportable advanced training courses, or on-the-job training provided to personnel to
increase their skills and knowledge beyond the minimum required for upgrade. The CFETP has several
purposes, some of which are:
1.1. Serves as a management tool to plan, develop, manage, and conduct a career field training
program. Also, ensures that established training is provided at the appropriate point in an individual's
career.
1.2. Identifies task and knowledge training requirements for each skill level in the specialty and
recommends training throughout each phase of an individual's career.
1.3. Lists training courses available in the specialty, identifies sources of the training, and provides the
training medium.
1.4. Identifies major resource constraints that impact implementation of the desired career field training
program.
2. Use of the CFETP. The CFETP is maintained by the 3D0XX Air Force Career Field Manager
(AFCFM), AF/A3CF/A6CF. MAJCOM FMs and AETC review the plan annually to ensure currency and
accuracy and forward recommended changes to the AFCFM. Using the list of courses in Part II, they
determine whether duplicate training exists and take steps to eliminate/prevent duplicate efforts. Career
field training managers at all levels use the plan to ensure a comprehensive and cohesive training
program is available for each individual in the career ladder.
2.1. AETC training personnel develop/revise formal resident and exportable training based upon
requirements established by the users and documented in the STS. They also develop procurement and
acquisition strategies for obtaining resources needed to provide the identified training.
2.2. MAJCOM FMs ensure their training programs complement the CFETP mandatory initial skill and
upgrade requirements. They also identify the needed AFJQSs/AFQTPs to document unique upgrade and
continuation training requirements. Requirements are satisfied through OJT, resident training, contract
training, or exportable courseware/courses. MAJCOM developed training to support this AFSC must be
included into this plan.
2.3. 81 TRSS/TSQ Qualification Training Flight (Q-Flight) personnel develop training packages
(AFJQSs/AFQTPs) based on requests submitted by the MAJCOMs and according to the priorities
assigned by the AFCFM.
2.4. Unit level training managers and supervisors manage and control progression through the career
field by ensuring individuals complete the mandatory training requirements for upgrade specified in this
plan and supplemented by their MAJCOM. The list of courses in Part II is used as a reference for
planning continuation or career enhancement training.
2.5. Submit recommended CFETP corrections to the 81 TRSS Q-Flight Customer Service Desk at 81
TRSS/TSQS, 601 D Street, Keesler AFB MS 39534-2235 or call DSN 597-3343. To contact electronically
send email to: qflight.customer.service@us.af.mil.



                                                      12
2.6. Submit recommended CFETP additions/deletions through your MAJCOM Functional Manager.
3. Coordination and Approval of the CFETP. The AFCFM is the approval authority. MAJCOM
representatives and AETC training personnel coordinate on the career field training requirements. The
AETC training manager initiates an annual review of this document by AETC and MAJCOM functional
managers to ensure the CFETP’s currency and accuracy by using the list of courses in Part II to eliminate
duplicate training.




                                                   13
Section B - Career Field Progression and Information
4. Specialty Description. This information supplements what is presented in the AFECD.
4.1. Cyber Surety Apprentice/Journeyman/Craftsman (3D033/3D053/3D073).
4.1.1. Specialty Summary. Supervises or operates fixed and deployed information systems (ISs) and
telecommunications resources to monitor, evaluate and maintain systems, policy and procedures to
protect clients, networks, data/voice systems and databases from unauthorized activity. Identifies
potential threats and manages resolution of security violations. Enforces national, DoD and Air Force
security policies and directives; employs hardware and software tools to enhance the security by
installing, monitoring and directing proactive and reactive information protection and defensive measures
to ensure Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA) of ISs resources. Administers and manages the
overall Information Assurance (IA) program to include Communications Security (COMSEC), TEMPEST
and Computer Security (COMPUSEC) programs. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 153000.
4.1.2. Duties and Responsibilities:
4.1.2.1. Conducts IA risk and vulnerability assessments; ensures enterprise IA policies fully support all
legal and regulatory requirements and ensures IA policies are applied in new and existing ISs resources.
Identifies IA weaknesses and provides recommendations for improvement. Monitors enterprise IA policy
compliance and provides recommendations for effective implementation of ISs security controls.
4.1.2.2. Evaluates and assists ISs activities. Makes periodic evaluation and assistance visits, notes
discrepancies, and recommends corrective actions. Audits and enforces the compliance of IA procedures
and investigates security-related incidents. Assists in conducting ISs forensic investigations. Manages
the IA program and monitors emerging security technologies and industry best practices.
4.1.2.3. Performs or supervises detection and protection activities using IA and IA-enabled tools and
provides real-time intrusion detection and firewall protection for IS resources. Responsible for IA
oversight or management of national security systems during all phases of the ISs life cycles. Ensures
CIA of ISs resources.
4.1.2.4. Operates and manages IA tools and IA-enabled tools. Integrates tools with other IS functions to
protect and defend IS resources. Provides CIA by verifying IA controls are implemented in accordance
with DoD and Air Force IA standards. Analyzes risks and/or vulnerabilities and takes corrective action to
mitigate or remove them. Ensures appropriate administrative, physical, and technical safeguards are
incorporated into all new ISs resources through certification and accreditation and protects ISs resources
from malicious activity.
4.1.2.5. Installs, upgrades, configures and maintains IA tools and IA enabled tools; develops scripts and
macros to automate tedious tasks; ensures data survivability through IA controls.
4.1.2.6. Performs COMSEC management duties in accordance with (IAW) national and DoD directives.
Perform Combat Crew Communications functions in support of flying mission operations.
4.1.2.7. Manages, supervises, and performs planning and implementation activities. Manages
implementation and project installation and ensures architecture, configuration, and integration
conformity. Develops, plans, and integrates base communications systems. Serves as advisor at
meetings for facility design, military construction programs and minor construction planning. Evaluates
base comprehensive plan and civil engineering projects. Monitors status of base civil engineer work
requests for IA/IS compliance. Performs mission review with customers. Controls, manages, and
monitors project milestones and funding from inception to completion. Determines adequacy and
correctness of project packages and amendments. Monitors project status and completion actions.
Manages and maintains system installation records, files, and indexes. Evaluates contracts, wartime,
support, contingency and exercise plans to determine impact on manpower, equipment, and systems.
4.2. Operations Superintendent.
4.2.1. Specialty Summary. Manages system analysis and design, programming, systems operation and
maintenance, resource management and security management. Directs activities for installing,



                                                    14
maintaining, repairing, overhauling, deploying, and modifying cyberspace systems and equipment
platforms. In addition, manages and directs network warfare operations in garrison and at deployed
locations by performing duties to develop, sustain, and enhance network and electromagnetic capabilities
to defend national interests from attack and to create effects in the cyberspace domain to achieve
national objectives. Ensures personnel are trained, equipped, and available to perform the assigned
mission. Related DoD Occupational Subgroup: 153200.
4.2.2. Duties and Responsibilities. Plans and organizes operations and software activities. Plans and
supervises system installation, and evaluates facilities layout. Evaluates performance standards.
Designs and develops organizational structures, and determines equipment, training, and supplies
required for systems implementation and support. Interacts with customers to promote customer
satisfaction. Establishes tactics, techniques and procedures. Executes operations plans to ensure
positive control of assigned forces. Evaluates operational readiness of communications, sensors,
intrusion detection, and related support equipment.
4.2.2.1. Directs activities responsible for system analysis and design, programming, operations and
maintenance, security, systems management, technical support, and resource management. Implements
and interprets policies, directives, and procedures.
4.2.2.2. Establishes training requirements. Establishes training programs to meet local knowledge and
certification requirements and to enhance professional awareness of technology.
4.2.2.3. Inspects and evaluates compliance with directives. Evaluates, rates, and prepares reports.
Recommends and implements corrective action for improved methods and procedures. Evaluates
effectiveness of equipment usage, systems performance, customer service, supplies, and system
scheduling, processing, and maintenance.
4.2.2.4. Plans, programs, and develops budget inputs to ensure resource availability for operational
requirements.
4.2.2.5. Manages development functions. Helps functional users define requirements. Recommends
automated methods to enhance resource use. Supervises functional user requirements translation into
automated systems capabilities. Organizes software development teams that use software
methodologies. Oversees database design to optimize collecting and retrieving information. Supervises
test and evaluation efforts to determine errors in logic, information flow, and system performance.
Organizes and participates in implementation and conversion. Ensures continued interface between
functional users, and programming and operations personnel for implemented systems. Ensures
compliance with standards for systems software and documentation
4.3. Chief Enlisted Managers (CEM). Manages system analysis and design, programming, systems
operation and maintenance, resource management and security management. Directs activities for
installing, maintaining, repairing, overhauling, deploying, and modifying cyberspace systems and
equipment platforms. In addition, manages and directs network warfare operations in garrison and at
deployed locations by performing duties to develop, sustain, and enhance network and electromagnetic
capabilities to defend national interests from attack and to create effects in the cyberspace domain to
achieve national objectives. Ensures personnel are trained, equipped, and available to perform the
assigned mission. Communicates and coordinates with MAJCOM Functional Manager. This position
serves at the operational level. Two unique CEM positions are:
4.4. MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM) for Cyber Operations. (AFPD 36-26, Total Force
Development; AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program; AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
(Officers and Airmen); Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory). Appointed by the MAJCOM Director of
Communications (A6) or equivalent. Advises the MAJCOM/A6 and staff on 3D0X3 utilization and training
issues. Serves as the MAJCOM voting representative during career field Utilization and Training
Workshops. Assists in gathering inputs and data to complete enlisted grade allocation for Career
Progression Group (CPG) reviews. Provides guidance to subordinate units on 3D0X3 personnel issues.
Assists with the dissemination of information regarding Air Force and career field policies, plans,
programs, and procedures to subordinate units. Assists in identifying qualified subject matter experts to
help with the development of Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) and the Career Development Course
(CDC). Acts as the primary MAJCOM reviewer on CDC training and classification waiver request


                                                   15
packages. Coordinates on all MAJCOM 3D0XX staffing and manpower issues.
4.5. Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) for the Cyber Operations Management Career Field.
(36-26, Total Force Development; AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program; AFI 36-2101, Classifying
Military Personnel (Officers and Airmen); Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory). Appointed by the Air
Force Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6). Advisor to the SAF/CIO
A6 on all matters affecting the Cyber Operations career fields. Communicates directly with MFMs and
AETC Training Managers to disseminate Air Force and career field policies and program requirements.
Ensures development, implementation, and maintenance of the CFETP. Serves as the chairperson for
the U&TW and uses it as a forum to determine and manage career field education and training
requirements as they apply to mission needs. Possesses final authority to waive CFETP requirements,
including CDCs. Assists AETC training managers and course supervisors with planning, developing,
implementing, and maintaining all AFSC-specific training courses. Assists in the development of AFSC-
related manpower standards.




                                                    16
5. Skills and Career Progression. Adequate training is essential to timely progression of personnel
from apprentice to superintendent skill levels and plays an important role in the Air Force’s ability to
accomplish its mission. Everyone involved in training must do their part to plan, manage, and conduct
effective training programs. The guidance provided in this part of the CFETP and the 3D0X3 CYBER
SURETY CAREER PATH table will ensure individuals receive viable training at appropriate points in their
career. Airmen should also review career progression information tailored to their grade and AFSC on My
Enlisted Development Plan (MyEDP), accessible through the Air Force Portal (AFP). Mandatory
requirements for upgrade training to each skill level are covered in Section C.




6. Training Decisions. This CFETP was developed to encapsulate an entire spectrum of training
requirements for the Cyber Surety career field, using a building block approach (simple to complex).
Included in this spectrum was the strategy of when, where, and how to meet the training requirements.
The strategy must be apparent and affordable to reduce duplication of training and eliminate a disjointed
approach to training.
6.1. Proficiency Training. This training is job qualification for an assigned duty position. Additional
qualification training becomes necessary when personnel transfer to another duty position, the unit
mission changes, a new personnel program comes on board, or any time changes in techniques or
procedures occur.
6.1.1. The first 14 task headers of the STS are considered common core to the entire cyber support
career fields. Each 3DXXX AFSC has the same 1-14 tasks, although each task is not core to each
AFSC. Dashed tasks are available in TBA for individual training plans (ITP) in the event an Airman
performs the tasks. Tasks were also added to build the Common Core 3DX5X CDC. Task header 15
material is related to the Security+ Certification. Task headers 16 through 27 are focused directly on the
Cyber Surety career field.



                                                     17
6.1.2. The 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) develops AFJQSs/AFQTPs to support tasks relating to Cyber Surety,
functions, and duties. Completion of AFJQSs/AFQTPs is mandatory by duty position for personnel in
upgrade or qualification training.
6.2. Seven-Level Upgrade Training Requirements: Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace
Career Advancement Course is mandatory.
6.3. Nine-Level Upgrade Training Requirements. Completion of E6ACW3DX9X 00AA Cyberspace
Superintendant Course. Mandatory for Qualification Training is required prior to upgrade to 9-Level, per
AFCFM.
7. Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Academic Programs. Enrollment in CCAF occurs
upon completion of basic military training. CCAF provides the opportunity for all enlisted members to
obtain an Associate in Applied Science degree. In order to be awarded the degree must be completed
before the student separates from the Air Force, retires, or is commissioned as an officer. In addition to
its associate’s degree program, CCAF offers the following:
7.1. CCAF Instructor Certification. The College offers the CCAF Instructor Certification to instructors
teaching full time in a CCAF affiliated school. To qualify, instructors must complete a 3 semester hour
Instructor Methodology course, a 12 semester hour Teaching Internship, have one year teaching
experience from date of Teaching Internship completion, hold an associate or higher degree, complete at
least 1,000 hours of documented practical experience teaching a CCAF course(s), and be recommended
by their commander/commandant.
7.2. The Information System Technology (0IYY) program applies to the 3D0X3 career field.
7.2.1. Degree Requirements: Individuals must hold the 5-skill level at the time of program completion.
                                                                                                                                    Semester hours
Technical Education .................................................................................................................................... 24
Leadership, Management, and Military Studies ............................................................................................ 6
Physical Education ........................................................................................................................................ 4
General Education ...................................................................................................................................... 15
Program Electives ....................................................................................................................................... 15
                                                                                                                                                Total 64
7.2.2. Technical Education (24 semester hours): A minimum of 12 semester hours of technical core
subjects and courses must be applied and the remaining semester hours will be applied from technical
core/technical elective subjects and courses. Requests to substitute comparable courses or to exceed
specified semester hour values in any subject/course must be approved in advance by the technical
branch of the CCAF Administrative Center.
7.2.3. Leadership, Management, and Military Studies (LMMS)(6 semester hours): Professional military
education (PME) and/or civilian management courses accepted in transfer and/or by testing credit. See
CCAF General Catalog for application of civilian management courses.
7.2.4. Physical Education (4 semester hours): Satisfied upon completion of basic military training.
7.2.5. General Education (15 semester hours): Courses must meet the criteria for application of courses
to the General Education requirement and be in agreement with the definitions of applicable General
Education subjects/courses as outlined in the CCAF General Catalog.
7.2.6. General Education Mobile (GEM): GEM is a partnership between CCAF and civilian academic
institutions to offer general education courses to meet CCAF A.A.S. degree requirements. Courses are
offered via distance learning which reduces CCAF educational impact of deployments, PCS and family
commitments.
7.2.7. Program Elective (15 semester hours): Courses applying to technical education, LMMS or general
education requirements; natural science courses meeting general education requirement application
criteria; foreign language credit earned at Defense Language Institute or through the Defense Language
Proficiency Test; maximum 9 Semester Hours of CCAF degree-applicable technical course credit
otherwise not applicable to program of enrollment.


                                                                            18
7.3. See the current CCAF General Catalog for details regarding the Associates of Applied Science in
Information System Technology. The catalog is available at your education office or from
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/.
7.4. Additional off-duty education is highly encouraged, but is a personal choice that is encouraged for all.
Individuals desiring to become an AETC instructor should be actively pursuing an associate degree. A
degreed faculty is necessary to maintain CCAF’s accreditation through the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools.




                                                      19
8. Career Field Path. The following summarizes career progression and personnel allocations across
the career ladder. 3D0XX personnel maintain their individual AFSC identifiers through the rank of MSgt.
Upon promotion to SMSgt, 3D0X1/3D0X2/3D0X3/3D0X4 merge to become a 3D090. 3D090’s compete
for the rank of Chief to become a 3D000. Specific demographic information is available on the Web at
http://wwa.afpc.randolph.af.mil/demographics/.




                                                   20
                                 3D0X3, CYBER SURETY CAREER PATH

                                          GRADE REQUIREMENTS

Education and Training                                                                          High Year Of
                                          Rank         Average Sew-         Earliest Sew-
Requirements                                                                                    Tenure
                                                       On                   On
                                                                                                (HYT)
BMTS

Apprentice Technical School               Amn          6 months
(3-Skill Level)
Upgrade To Journeyman                     A1C          16 months            28 months           8 Years
(5-Skill Level)                           SrA          3 years
MANDATORY
- Minimum 12 months on-the-job
(OJT) training.
- Minimum 9 months OJT training for
retrainees.
- Complete appropriate CDC.
- Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs for
equipment at assigned location by
duty position.
- Completion of 5-Level Training
Track CBTs.
OPTIONAL
- AETC Supplemental training
courses as determined by MAJCOM.

Airman Leadership School (ALS)            Trainer
- Must be a SrA with 48 months time       - Qualified and certified to perform the task to be trained.
in service or be a SSgt Selectee.
                                          - Must attend formal AF Training Course.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite
                                          - Recommended by the supervisor.
for SSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
Upgrade To Craftsman                      SSgt         3.69 years           3 years             15 Years
(7-Skill Level)
MANDATORY
- Minimum rank of SSgt.
- 12 months OJT.
- 6 months OJT for retrainees.
- Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X
01AA Cyberspace Career
Advancement Course.



                                                     21
                                3D0X3, CYBER SURETY CAREER PATH

                                          GRADE REQUIREMENTS

Education and Training                                                                          High Year Of
                                          Rank         Average Sew-         Earliest Sew-
Requirements                                                                                    Tenure
                                                       On                   On
                                                                                                (HYT)
- Completion of AFQTP 3DXXX-232A,
 Communications and Information
 Work Center Supervisor’s
 Handbook.
- Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs for
equipment at assigned location by
duty position.
- Completion of 7-Level Training
Track CBTs.
OPTIONAL
- AETC Supplemental training
courses as determined by MAJCOM.
                                          Certifier
                                          - Must be a SSgt with a 5-skill level or civilian equivalent.
                                          - Must attend formal AF Training Course.
                                          - Be a person other than the trainer except for AFSCs, duty
                                          positions, units, and/or work centers with specialized training
                                          standardization and certification requirements.

                                          TSgt         11.30 years          5 years             20 years
Noncommissioned Officer
Academy (NCOA)                            MSgt         15.41 years          8 years             24 years
- Must be a TSgt or MSgt.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite
 for MSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).
- ANG/AFRC TSgt or MSgt may
 attend in-residence or may complete
 by correspondence course.
USAF Senior NCO Academy
(SNCOA)
- Must be a TSgt (correspondence
 course only), MSgt, or SMSgt.
- Resident graduation is a prerequisite
for SMSgt sew-on (Active Duty Only).




                                                      22
                               3D0X3, CYBER SURETY CAREER PATH

                                       GRADE REQUIREMENTS

Education and Training                                                                 High Year Of
                                       Rank        Average Sew-       Earliest Sew-
Requirements                                                                           Tenure
                                                   On                 On
                                                                                       (HYT)
Upgrade To Superintendent              SMSgt       18.97 years        11 years         26 years
(9-Skill Level)
MANDATORY
- Minimum rank of SMSgt.
- Complete E6ACW3DX9X 00AA
Cyberspace Superintendent Course.
- Mandatory for upgrade to 9 level
training
- Completion of 9-Level Training
Track CBTs, if available.
- Specific AFJQSs/AFQTPs for
equipment at assigned location by
duty position.
CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT                  CMSgt       22.73 years        14 years         30 years



NOTE 1: Published sew-on times are Air Force averages. Refer to the Air Force Personnel Center’s
homepage to determine career field specific information:
http://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil/promotions/index.asp.
NOTE 2: See Part II, Sections C and D for a list of AFJQSs/AFQTPs and AETC supplemental training.
NOTE 3: All core position tasks must be completed prior to upgrade.




                                                  23
Section C - Skill Level Training Requirements

9. Purpose. The various skill levels in the career field are defined in terms of tasks and knowledge
requirements for each skill level in the Cyber Surety field of the Cyber Operations career ladder. They are
stated in broad, general terms and establish the standards of performance. Core tasks, knowledge items,
and skill requirements for this specialty are identified in the STS, COL, CDCs, AFJQSs/AFQTPs, etc.
Completion of the mandatory 3-level skill awarding course, CDCs, and applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs
define the Air Force core tasks for this specialty.
10. Specialty Qualification Requirements.
10.1. Apprentice (3-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE             Computer Security.
                       Communications Security.
                       Emissions Security.
                       Security Tools.
                       Access Control.
                       Vulnerabilities and Countermeasures.
                       Certification and Accreditation.
                       Legal and Ethics.
                       Reporting Procedures.
                       Ports and Protocols.
                       Network Fundamentals.
                       Inter/Intra Agency Roles and Responsibilities.
                       Cryptology.
                       Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program.
 EDUCATION             Courses in advanced mathematics, computer science, and networking is
                       desirable.
 TRAINING              Completion of the Cyber Surety Apprentice course, E3AQR3D033 01AA (PDS
                       Code XO1), See Part II, Section B for Course Objective List.
 EXPERIENCE            Systems administration in a UNIX, Linux/MacOS, or Windows environment
                       and/or software development, testing, and quality assurance is desired. IAT
                       Level 2/IAM Level 1 certification is desired
 OTHER                 For award and retention of AFSC 3D033, must maintain an Air Force Network
                       License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                       Certifying Network Professional and AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security
                       (COMPUSEC).
                       Requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment. Award
                       and retention of AFSCs 3D033, requires completion of a current Single Scope
                       Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel Security
                       Program Management.
                       NOTE: Award of the 3-skill level without a completed SSBI is authorized
                       provided an interim SSBI has been granted according to AFI 31-501.
 IMPLEMENTATION          Attendance at the Cyber Surety Apprentice course is mandatory for award of
                         the 3-skill level unless waived by the 3D0XX AFCFM.




                                                    24
10.2. Journeyman (5-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE            All 3D033 knowledge qualifications apply to the 3D053 requirements.
                      Completion of the 3DX5X and 3D053 Career Development Courses.
 TRAINING             No mandatory AETC training courses are required for upgrade.
                      Completion of 5-level training track CBTs.
 EXPERIENCE           Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D033.
                      Cyber Surety IA functions (i.e. COMSEC, EMSEC, COMPUSEC…).
                      Completion of all STS core tasks.
                      Completion of applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs.
                      Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position.
                      Obtain & maintain IAM Level 1 certification.
 OTHER                For award and retention of AFSC 3D053, must maintain an Air Force Network
                      License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                      Certifying Network Professional and AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security
                      (COMPUSEC).
                      Requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment. For
                      award and retention of AFSC 3D053, requires completion of a current Single
                      Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
                      Security Management Program.
 IMPLEMENTATION       Entry into formal journeyman upgrade training is accomplished once
                      individuals are assigned to their first duty station. Qualification training is
                      initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for which they are not
                      qualified. Use CDCs, CBTs and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently to obtain the
                      necessary qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.




                                                  25
10.3. Craftsman (7-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE             All 3D053 knowledge qualifications apply to the 3D073 requirements.
                       Completion of AFQTP 3DXXX-232A, Communications and Information Work
                       Center Supervisor’s Handbook.
                       Computer System Project Management
                       Computer System Planning.
 TRAINING              Completion of the E6ACW3DX7X 01AA Cyberspace Career Advancement
                       Course is mandatory.
                       Completion of 7-level training track CBTs.
 EXPERIENCE            Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D053.
                       Performing or supervising Cyber Surety IA functions (i.e. COMSEC, EMSEC,
                       COMPUSEC).
                       Completion of all STS core tasks.
                       Completion of applicable AFJQSs/AFQTPs.
                       Completion of all local tasks assigned for the duty position.
 OTHER                 For award and retention of AFSC 3D073, must maintain an Air Force Network
                       License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                       Certifying Network Professional and AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security
                       (COMPUSEC).
                       Requires routine access to Top Secret material or similar environment. For
                       award and retention of AFSC 3D073, requires completion of a current Single
                       Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
                       Security Management Program.
 IMPLEMENTATION        Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals obtain the necessary rank and skill
                       level. Qualification training is initiated anytime an individual is assigned duties
                       for which they are not qualified. Use CDCs and AFJQSs/AFQTPs concurrently
                       to obtain the necessary qualification for refresher and cross-utilization training.




                                                    26
10.4. Superintendent (9-Level) Training.
 KNOWLEDGE             Resource Management.
                       Manpower and Organization.
                       Administrative Contract Management.
                       Training Management.
                       Software Maintenance Management.
                       Logistics Management.
                       Publications Management.
                       Records Management.
                       Deployment Management.
                       Base/Unit Functional Management.
                       Awards Programs.
 TRAINING              Complete E6ACW3DX9X 00AA Cyberspace Superintendent Course.
 EXPERIENCE                Qualification in and possession of AFSC 3D07X.
                           Directing functions such as systems analysis or design, software development,
                           teleprocessing systems operations and maintenance.
 OTHER                     For award and retention of AFSC 3D093, must maintain an Air Force Network
                           License according to AFI 33-115, Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and
                           Certifying Network Professional and AFMAN 33-282, Computer Security
                           (COMPUSEC).
                           Eligibility for a Secret security clearance according to AFI 31-501, Personnel
                           Security Program Management, is mandatory for award and retention of this
                           skill level.
 IMPLEMENTATION            Entry into OJT is initiated when individuals are selected for the rank of SMSgt.
                           Qualification training is initiated anytime individuals are assigned duties for
                           which they are not qualified.

10.5. Training Sources.
10.5.1. AFSC specific training–336 TRS, Keesler AFB, MS at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
10.5.2. CDCs 3D0X3 are available for upgrade purposes through the unit training manager. For
individual qualification and cross-utilization training, CDCs are ordered through the unit training office.
10.5.3. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are Air Force publications and are mandatory for use by personnel in upgrade
or qualification training. They are developed by the 81 TRSS (Q-Flight), Keesler AFB, MS and may be
downloaded from https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/20946/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx. Procedures for
requesting development of AFJQSs/AFQTPs are contained in AFI 33-154, Air Force On-the-Job Training
Products for Cyberspace Support Enlisted Specialty Training. AFJQSs/AFQTPs are listed in Part II,
Section C, of this CFETP.




                                                      27
Section D - Resource Constraints

11. Purpose. This section identifies known resource constraints that preclude optimal/desired training
from being developed or conducted, including information such as cost and manpower. Included are
narrative explanations of each resource constraint and an impact statement describing what effect each
constraint has on training, the resources needed, and actions required to satisfy the training
requirements.
12. Apprentice (3-Level) Training. There are no constraints.
13. Journeyman (5-Level) Training. There are no constraints.
14. Craftsman (7-Level) Training. There are no constraints.
15. Superintendent (9-Level) Training. There are no constraints.

Section E - Transition Training Guide

There are currently no transition training requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                    28
PART II

Section A - Specialty Training Standard

1. Implementation. This STS will be used for technical training provided by AETC for the 3-level class
beginning at a future date to be determined.
2. Purpose. As prescribed in AFI 36-2201, this STS:
2.1. Lists in column 1 (Task, Knowledge, and Technical Reference) the most common tasks, knowledge,
and technical references (TR) necessary for airman to perform duties in the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill level.
Column 2 (Core Tasks) identifies, by asterisk (*), specialty-wide training requirements. NOTE: Core
tasks are minimum task training requirements for upgrade to the 5-skill level.
2.2. Provides certification for OJT. Column 3 is used to record completion of tasks and knowledge
training requirements. Use automated training management systems to document technician
qualifications, if available. For initial certification or transcribing documentation complete the columns in
accordance to AFI 36-2201.
2.3. Shows formal training and correspondence course requirements. Column 4 shows the proficiency to
be demonstrated on the job by the graduate as a result of training on the task/knowledge and the career
knowledge provided by the correspondence course. See the Air University catalog maintained at
http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/ for current CDC listings.
2.4. Qualitative Requirements. Attachment 1 contains the tasks, knowledge, and proficiency levels
referenced in paragraph 2. Columns are marked with a proficiency code to indicate subjects taught. An
X in the proficiency code column indicates a lack of student man years and instructor resources.
Trainees without prerequisites specified in Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA) cannot
be expected to meet proficiency levels indicated.
2.5. Becomes a job qualification standard (JQS) for on-the-job training when placed in AF Form 623,
Individual Training Record folder, and used according to AFI 36-2201.
2.6. Is a guide for development of promotion tests used in the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). Specialty Knowledge Tests (SKT) are developed at the Airmen Advancement Division by senior
NCOs with extensive practical experience in their career fields. The tests sample knowledge of STS
subject matter areas judged by test development team members as most appropriate for promotion to
higher grades. Questions are based upon study references listed in the Enlisted Promotion References
and Requirements Catalog. Individual responsibilities are listed in chapter 1 of AFI 36-2605, Air Force
Military Personnel Testing System. WAPS is not applicable to the Air National Guard or Air Reserve
Forces.
3. Recommendations. Comments and recommendations are invited concerning the quality of AETC
training. A Training Feedback Hotline has been installed for the supervisors' convenience. For a quick
response to concerns, call our Training Feedback Hotline at DSN 597-4566, fax us at DSN 597-3790, or
e-mail us at 81trg-tget@keesler.af.mil. Reference this STS and identify the specific area of concern
(paragraph, training standard element, etc.).


BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
         OFFICIAL                                           MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                            Chief, Information Dominance and
                                                            Chief Information Officer


Attachments:
1. Specialty Training Standard (STS) 3D0X3




                                                      29
                                                                                              STS 3D0X3


                                               PREFACE

NOTE 1: Users are responsible for annotating technical references to identify current references pending
STS revision. Locate current Air Force publications at:

      DOD Issuances and OSD Administrative Instructions at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/
      Air Force publications at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
      AFSSIs at https://private.afnic.af.mil/ia/PolicyDocuments.cfm
      DISA Circulars and Instructions at https://www.disa.mil/About/DISA-Issuances
      Technical Orders (TO) at https://www.my.af.mil/etims/ETIMS/index.jsp
      AF e-Learning: https://usafprod.skillport.com/skillportfe/custom/login/usaf/seamlesslogin.action
NOTE 2: Knowledge and/or performance tasks are defined in the AFJQS. AFJQS items set the standard
for qualification and certification and are mandatory for use in conjunction with this STS when applicable
to the duty position.
NOTE 3: AFQTP 3DXXX-232A, Communications and Information Work Center Supervisor's Handbook is
mandatory for upgrade to the 7-skill level in all 3DXXX career fields.
NOTE 4: All objectives are trained during wartime.
NOTE 5: Track and manage training for TSgts and below and MSgt/SMSgt retrainees using Training
Business Area (TBA).
NOTE 6: When an AFJQS is loaded into TBA, AFJQS task numbering will vary from the STS. The
numbering scheme is defined by your work center specific master training plan.
NOTE 7: Third person certification is not required for all Cyber Support Specialist personnel. However,
members (to include civilians and contractors) assigned to crew positions are still required position
certification in accordance with Stan/Eval procedures.
NOTE 8: Senior NCO’s in the 3DXXX AFSCs are not required to have an Individual Training Plan (ITP)
with the following exceptions: personnel in upgrade training status, or performing equipment maintenance
as part of primary duties. Unit Commanders can require Senior NCO’s with UTC tasks to have an ITP.




                                                     30                                      Attachment 1
                                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3




                                                      PROFICIENCY CODE KEY
-             SCALE   DEFINITION: The individual
              VALUE
                1     Can do simple parts of the task. Needs to be told or shown how to do most of the task. (EXTREMELY LIMITED)
Performance
   Levels




                2     Can do most parts of the task. Needs help only on hardest parts. (PARTIALLY PROFICIENT)
    Task




                3     Can do all parts of the task. Needs only a spot check of completed work. (COMPETENT)
                4     Can do the complete task quickly and accurately. Can tell or show others how to do the task. (HIGHLY PROFICIENT)
                a     Can name parts, tools, and simple facts about the task. (NOMENCLATURE)
Knowledge
  Levels




                b     Can determine step by step procedures for doing the task. (PROCEDURES)
  *Task




                c     Can identify why and when the task must be done and why each step is needed. (OPERATING PRINCIPLES)
                d     Can predict, isolate, and resolve problems about the task. (ADVANCED THEORY)
                A     Can identify basic facts and terms about the subject. (FACTS)
Knowledge
 **Subject

   Levels




                B     Can identify relationship of basic facts and state general principles about the subject. (PRINCIPLES)
                C     Can analyze facts and principles and draw conclusions about the subject. (ANALYSIS)
                D     Can evaluate conditions and make proper decisions about the subject. (EVALUATION)
                                                                 Explanations
* A task knowledge scale value may be used alone or with a task performance scale value to define a level of knowledge for a specific task.
(Example: b and 1b)
** A subject knowledge scale value is used alone to define a level of knowledge for a subject not directly related to any specific task, or for a
   subject common to several tasks. This mark is used alone instead of a scale value to show that no proficiency training is provided in the
   course or CDC.
(-) This mark is used alone in Proficiency Codes Course columns to show that training is required but not given due to limitations in
   resources
NOTE: All tasks and knowledge items shown with a proficiency code are trained during wartime.
(-) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates that the qualification is a local determination.
(5) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 5-level requirement.
    The training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.
(7) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has mandated this task as a core 7-level requirement.
    The training to satisfy this requirement is either provided through OJT, CBTs, CDCs, or a combination.
(5*) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has selected this task as core 5-level tasks if loaded
     to the individual’s ITA. This code indicates that training to satisfy this requirement is normally provided through OJT.
(7*) When this code is used in the Core & Wartime Tasks Column it indicates the CFM has selected this task as core 7-level tasks if loaded
     to the individual’s ITA. This code indicates that training to satisfy this requirement is normally provided through OJT.


     CDC Column. The use of proficiency coding indicates the level of knowledge training provided by the
     CDCs. The CDC column will now identify the subject knowledge level covered in the CDC. Information
     pertaining to the meaning of the code can be located in the STS coding system table.
     CFETP versus AFJQS task coding. AFJQSs/AFQTPs annotated in the CFETP with a
     skill level denotes the AFJQS is mandatory. Within the AFJQS are individual tasks that are coded either
     “X” or “X*”. If the tasks are coded “X,” they are mandatory. If coded “X*,” they are duty position specific.




                                                                      31                                                   Attachment 1
                                                                                                           STS 3D0X3




                                     THIS BLOCK IS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY

                                                Personal Data – Privacy Act of 1974

PRINTED NAME OF TRAINEE (Last, First, Middle Initial)                      INITIALS (Written)   Last 4 of SSN



                        PRINTED NAME OF TRAINER AND CERTIFYING OFFICIAL AND WRITTEN INITIALS


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I

N/I                                                              N/I


N/I                                                              N/I




                                                               32                                         Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

1. CYBER SURETY
CAREER FIELD
TR: AFH 33-337; AFIs 10-
401, 33-100, 33-101, 33-
115 Vols 1 & 3, 33-150;
AFI 36-2101; 3D0X3
CFETP; AFECD
1.1. Structure                   -                                                           -         -          -         -
1.2. Progression within Air
Force Specialty Code             5                                                           -         -          -         -
3D0X3
1.3. Read CFETP 3D0X3,
                                 5                                                           -         -          -         -
Part I
1.4. Air Force Specialty
Code 3D0X3
1.4.1. Explain duties of
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
AFSC
1.4.2. Explain
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
responsibilities of AFSC
1.4.3. Explain AFSC core
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
competencies
1.4.4. Explain
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
qualifications
1.4.5. Describe customer
                                 5                                                           -         -          -         -
relations
1.4.6. Describe associated
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
career family AFSCs
2. SAFETY/ RISK
MANAGEMENT (RM)
TR: AFIs 90-802, 91-203,
91-302
2.1. RM                          5                                                           -        A           -         -
2.2. AF Consolidated
Occupational Safety              5                                                          A         A           -         -
Instructions for AFSC
2.3. Hazards of the AFSC         5                                                          A         A           -         -
2.4. Practice safety
precautions:
2.4.1. Maintenance
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
actions
2.4.2. Energized
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
equipment
2.4.3. High voltage
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
equipment
2.4.4. In Radio Frequency
(RF) hazard environments
TR: AFI 91-203 Chap
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
30.15; TO 31Z-10-4; and
command and local
directives




                                                               33
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                             STS 3D0X3



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                    PROVIDED

                             2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                      3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                 &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                             WARTIME
REFERENCES
                              TASKS

                                                                              CERTIFI
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                 ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

2.4.5. Compressed gas
cylinders
TR: AFI 91-203 Chap 40;
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
TO 42B5-1-2; and
command and local
directives
2.4.6. Hazardous
materials
TR: AFI 91-203 Chap 22,         -                                                           -         -          -         -
31, 33, 36, 40, & 43; TO
00-25-213
2.5. Safety and Personal
Protective Equipment
TR: AFI 91-203 Chap 14;
TO 00-25-245; command
and local directives
2.5.1. Use                      -                                                           -         -          -         -
2.5.2. Maintain                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
2.5.3. Inspect                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
2.6. Perform general
                                5                                                           -         -          -         -
housekeeping
2.7. Fire Protection
Procedures
TR: AFI 91-203 Chap 6;
command and local
directives
2.7.1. Describe classes of
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
extinguishers
2.7.2. Describe fire
protection procedures for       -                                                           -         -          -         -
electronic equipment
2.7.3. Describe fire
protection procedures for
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
critical communications
facilities
2.8. Work Center Safety
Program
TR: AFI 91-202, chaps 1,
2.2. thru 2.3, and 4; AFI
91-203 Chap 1; AFQTP
3DXXX-232A; command
and local directives
2.8.1. Manage work center
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
program
2.8.2. Conduct job safety
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
analysis
2.8.3. Document AF
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
Forms 55
2.8.4. Conduct
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
inspections




                                                              34
                                                                                                          Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

3. UTILIZE
PUBLICATIONS AND
DIRECTIVES
TR: AFIs 33-Series; AF
Records Distribution
System; http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/
3.1. Department of
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Defense (DOD)/Joint
3.2. Air Force                   5                                                           -        A           -         -
3.3. Allied
Communications                   -                                                           -        A           -         -
Publications (ACP)
3.4. Commercial/vendor
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
publications
3.5. DISA Publications           -                                                           -        A           -         -
3.6. Technical Orders
(TO)
3.6.1. Describe Technical
Order System
                                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
TR: AFI 63-101; TO 00-5-
1-WA-1; TO 00-5-18-WA-1
3.6.2. Locate TO numbers
and titles in each TO index
TR: TO 00-5-1-WA-1; TO
00-5-18-WA-1;                    -                                                           -         -          -         -
https://www.my.af.mil/etims
/ETIMS/index.jsp;
Applicable TO index
3.6.3. Identify Time
Compliance Technical
Orders (TCTO) procedures
TR: AFCSM 21-568 (V2)
https://www.my.af.mil/etims      -                                                           -         -          -         -
/ETIMS/index.jsp; AFI 33-
150; TO 00-5-15-WA-1, TO
00-33A-1001-WA-1 and
applicable TCTOs
3.6.4. Implement Time
Compliance Technical
Orders (TCTO) procedures
and document completion
TR: AFCSM 21-568 (V2)
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
https://www.my.af.mil/etims
/ETIMS/index.jsp; AFI 33-
150; TO 00-5-15-WA-1,
TO 00-33A-1001-WA-1;
and applicable TCTOs
3.6.5. Prepare local work
cards, checklists and job
guides
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: TO 00-5-1-WA-1;
command and local
directives

                                                               35
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

3.6.6. Report Publication
Errors and Form
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
Deficiencies
TR: AFI 33-360
3.6.7. Report Technical
Order Improvements                5                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: TO 00-5-1-WA-1
3.7. Standard Installation
Practices Technical Order         -                                                           -        A           -         -
(SIPTO)
3.8. Enterprise Information
Architecture (EIA)/
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
Telecommunications
Industry Association (TIA)
3.9. Military Standard (MIL
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
STD)
3.10. Use publications
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
when performing work
4. LEGAL/ETHICS
TR: AFDD 3-13,
Information Operations;
Health Insurance
Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA);
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine
/new_pubs/jp3_13.pdf;
USC TITLE 10, 18 and 50
4.1. Identify and explain
US Codes (e.g. Titles 10,
15, 18, 32, 50) (e.g.
Constitutional Authority,
legal aspects of rules of         -                                                           -        A           -         -
engagement, homeland
defense, Posse Comitatus,
UN Charter Paradigm,
Schmidt Analysis)
4.2. Rules of Engagement
(ROE)
4.2.1. Policy                     5                                                           -         -          -         -
4.2.2. Security tools             5                                                           -         -          -         -
4.2.3. Network
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
Management Components
4.2.4. System Monitoring          5                                                           -         -          -         -
4.3. Special Data
protection (e.g. sensitive        -                                                           -         -          -         -
personnel information)
5. C4I SECURITY
TR: ACP 122; AFIs
33-129, 33-138, 33-332;
AFKAG-1&2; AFMAN 33-
326; DOD 5200.1-R and
TO 31S5-4-7205-8-1 PKI
Fundamentals

                                                                36
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

5.1. Operations Security
(OPSEC)
TR: AFI 10-701; AFPD 10-
7
5.1.1. Definition                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
5.1.2. Background                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
5.1.3. Relationship of
OPSEC to other security           5                                                           -        B           -         -
programs
5.1.4. Vulnerabilities            -                                                           -         -          -         -
5.1.5. Critical information       -                                                           -         -          -         -
5.2. Information Security
(INFOSEC)
TR: AFI 31-401; AFPD
31-4, 33-2
5.2.1. Definition                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
5.2.2. Classification
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
process
5.2.3. Declassification
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
process
5.2.4. Information
safeguards
5.2.4.1. Privacy Act (PA)         5                                                           -        A           -         -
5.2.4.2. For Official Use
                                  5                                                           -        A           -         -
Only (FOUO)
5.2.4.3. Sensitive
                                  5                                                           -        A           -         -
Unclassified
5.2.4.4. Classified               5                                                           -        A           -         -
5.3. Communications
Security (COMSEC)
TR: AFIs 31-401, 33-201
(V2); AFPDs 31-4, 33-2
5.3.1. Definition                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
5.3.2. Vulnerabilities            -                                                           -        B           -         -
5.3.3. Safeguarding
                                  5                                                           -        B           -         -
Information
5.3.4. Identify insecurities      -                                                           -        B           -         -
5.3.5. Report insecurities        -                                                           -        A           -         -
5.3.6. Protect COMSEC
material
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec
E, paras 20.1 thru 20.6.1
and local COMSEC
directives




                                                                37
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

5.3.6.1. Store COMSEC
material/equipment
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec           -                                                           -         -          -         -
E, paras19.1 thru 19.5 and
local COMSEC directives
5.3.6.2. Store Controlled
Cryptographic equipment
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec           -                                                           -         -          -         -
E, paras19.1 thru 19.5 and
local COMSEC directives
5.3.7. Inventory COMSEC
documents and/or
equipment
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec           -                                                           -         -          -         -
F, paras 21.1 thru 21.14
and local COMSEC
directives
5.3.8. Page check
COMSEC documents
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
F, paras 22.1 thru 22.3.4
and local COMSEC
directives
5.3.9. Post amendments
to COMSEC documents
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec           -                                                           -         -          -         -
F, paras 23.1 thru 23.2 and
local COMSEC directives
5.3.10. Explain
procedures for destroying
cryptographic equipment
and materials                     -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), sec
G, paras 27 thru 32 and
local directives
5.3.11. Explain how to
report physical, personnel,
and cryptographic security
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
violations
TR: AFI 33-201(V2), and
local directives
5.3.12. Protect Major
Command/Field Operating
Agency (MAJCOM/FOA)
Mission Critical Information
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFI 10-701; AFPD 10-
7; MAJCOM/FOA
directives; and local
directives
5.4. Emission Security
(EMSEC)
TR: AFPD 33-2 and
AFSSI 7700
5.4.1. Definition                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
5.4.2. Notifications              5                                                           -        B           -         -

                                                                38
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS


5.4.3. Vulnerabilities            5                                                           -        B           -         -
5.4.4. Protected
                                  5                                                           -        B           -         -
Distribution System (PDS)
5.5. Computer Security
(COMPUSEC)
TR: AFIs 33-200; AFPD
33-2; AFMAN 33-282
5.5.1. Definition                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
5.5.2. Vulnerabilities            5                                                           -        B           -         -
5.5.3. Processing
                                  5                                                           -        B           -         -
classified information
5.5.4. Identify insecurities      5                                                           -        B           -         -
5.5.5. Report insecurities        5                                                           -        A           -         -
5.6. Physical Security
TR: AFI 31-401 and DoD
5200.1-R
5.6.1. Definition                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
5.6.2. Secure area access
                                  -                                                           -        B           -         -
management
5.6.3. Facility security
                                  -                                                           -        B           -         -
requirements
5.6.4. Identify violations
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
procedures
5.6.5. Report violations
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
procedures
5.6.6. Classified material
control
5.6.6.1. Storage                  5                                                           -        B           -         -
5.6.6.2. Transport                5                                                           -        B           -         -
5.6.6.3. Handling                 5                                                           -        B           -         -
5.6.6.4. Destruction              -                                                           -        B           -         -
5.6.6.5. Classified waste         -                                                           -        B           -         -
5.6.6.6. Marking                  -                                                           -        B           -         -
5.7. Information
Assurance
TR: AFI 33-200, AFI 33-
210
5.7.1. Definition                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
5.7.2. Certification and
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
accreditation process
5.8. Information
Conditions (INFOCON)              5                                                           -        B           -         -
TR: AFI 10-710
6. IT REQUIREMENTS
TR: AFI 33-401, AFI 33-
210

                                                                39
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS


6.1. Lifecycle                    -                                                           -        A           -         -
6.2. Procurement                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
6.3. Integrated Technical
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
Reference Model (iTRM)
7. MANAGEMENT OF
PROCESSES
TR: AFIs 33-150, 36-2201,
63-501, 63-131, 64-102;
AFPD 36-5, 64-1; Federal
Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) Part 39; OMB
Circular A-130; TOs 00-
33A-1001-WA-1 and 00-
33D-3003-WA-1
7.1. Management Policies
7.1.1. Equipment
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Readiness
7.1.2. Staffing and
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
Utilization
7.1.3. Training
7.1.3.1. Document
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
Training
7.1.3.2. Evaluate newly
assigned personnel and
identify individual training
requirements
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFIs 36-2201; 33-150;
AFQTP 3DXXX-232A;
Applicable CFETP; Unit
Training Manual
7.1.3.3. Conduct On-the-
Job Training (OJT)
TR: AFI 36-2201; AFQTP            5                                                           -         -          -         -
3DXXX-232A; and local
directives
7.1.3.4. Evaluate quality of
OJT and provide trainee
feedback                          5                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFI 36-2201; AFQTP
3DXXX-232A
7.1.3.5. Develop Master
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
Training Plan
7.1.4. Quality Assurance
(QA)
7.1.4.1. Perform self
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
inspection
7.1.4.2. Evaluate
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
Equipment
7.1.4.3. Document results         5                                                           -         -          -         -
7.1.4.4. Describe the QA
                                  5                                                                    A
function


                                                                40
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

7.1.5. Automated
Information Systems (AIS)
7.1.5.1. Integrated
Maintenance Data System           -                                                           -         -          -         -
(IMDS)
7.1.5.2. Remedy                   -                                                           -         -          -         -
7.1.5.3. Asset Inventory
Management (AIM)                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
System
7.1.5.4. Training Business
                                  5                                                           -         -          -         -
Area (TBA)
7.1.6. Describe the
Communications Focal
Point Function                    -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: MPTO 00-33A-1001-
WA-1
7.1.7. Logistics Support
7.1.7.1. Submit Price
Challenges
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V7)
part 4
7.1.7.2. Report Item and
Packaging Discrepancies           -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFJMAN 23-215
7.1.7.3. Report Uniform
Source, Maintenance and
Recoverability Code and
Air Force Expendability,
Recoverability, Reparability
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Category Code
Discrepancies
TR: AFJI 21-106; TOs 00-
20-3, chap 1; 00-25-195-
WA-1
7.1.7.4. Submit Deficiency
Reports
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: TO 00-35D-54-WA-1,
chap 3
7.1.7.5. Research and
identify part and stock
numbers
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: Applicable equipment
TOs; Federal Logistics
(FEDLOG) program
7.1.7.6. Maintain supply
listings and reports (D04,
D18, M30, D23, or
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
equivalent IMDS
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2)
part 13, chap 5




                                                                41
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

7.1.7.7. Maintain bench
stock
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2)             -                                                           -         -          -         -
part 2, chap 25; part 13,
chap 3; and local directives
7.1.7.8. Maintain supply
point stock
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2)
part 2, chap 24, attch 24A4
and 24A5; AFMAN 23-110
(V2) part 13, chap 3; TO
00-20-3-WA-1, chap 3
7.1.7.9. Request and
validate adjusted stock
levels (special levels)
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2)             -                                                           -         -          -         -
part 2, chap 19; AFMAN
23-110 (V2) part 13, chap
3
7.1.7.10. Describe
procedures for recovering
and turning in precious
metals                            -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2)
part 13, chap 1.15; and
local directives
7.1.7.11. Manage repair
cycle
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2)
part 2, chap 24; AFMAN
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
23-110 (V2), part 13, chap
6; TO 00-20-3-WA-1,
chaps 2 and 3, and Table
2-1
7.1.7.12. Initiate Not
Repairable This Station
(NRTS) actions
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFI 33-150; TO 00-
20-3-WA-1, chaps 3 and 6,
and Table 1-1
7.1.7.13. Initiate contract
repair (AF Form 9)
TR: AFI 64-102; AFMAN
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
23-110 (V2), part 13, chap
8, sec 8H; Command and
local directives
7.1.7.14. Maintain
Custodian
Authorization/Custody
Receipt Listing (CA/CRL)
equipment accounts                -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFMAN 23-110 (V2)
part 13, chap 8, secs 8C
and 8F; and local
directives


                                                                42
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

7.1.8. Work Centers
Management
TR: AFQTP 3DXXX-232A,
AFQTP 3DXXX-200D and
AFI 21-103
7.1.8.1. Report Status            5                                                           -         -          -         -
7.1.8.2. Document actions         5                                                           -         -          -         -
7.1.8.3. Develop work
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
schedules
7.1.9. Modification
Management
TR: AFI 63-131
7.1.9.1. Control
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Configuration
7.1.9.2. Initiate
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Modification Proposals
7.1.10. Cyberspace
Infrastructure Planning
system (CIPS)
TR: TO 00-33D-3003-WA-
1and 00-33D-3004-WA-1
7.1.10.1. CSIRs                   -                                                           -        A           -         -

7.1.10.2. CIPS CVC tool           -                                                           -         -          -         -
7.1.11. Administrative
Contract Management
TR: Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR)
Part 16
7.1.11.1. Types of
Contracts
7.1.11.1.1. Time and
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
material
7.1.11.1.2. Firm fixed price      -                                                           -         -          -         -

7.1.11.1.3. Sole source           -                                                           -         -          -         -
7.1.11.1.4. Performance
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
based
7.1.11.1.5. Indefinite
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
delivery indefinite quantity
7.1.11.1.6. Blanket
Purchase Agreement (e.g.          -                                                           -         -          -         -
AFWAY, PCOE)
7.1.11.2. Responsibilities
7.1.11.2.1. Quality
Assurance Program                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
Coordinator
7.1.11.2.2. Functional
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Director/Commander
7.1.11.2.3. Quality
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Assurance Personnel
7.1.11.2.4. Unit Contract
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Monitor
                                                                43
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

7.2. Information
Management
TR: AFPD 33-3; AFIs 33-
321, 33-129; AFH 33-337;
AFMANs 33-128, 33-152,
33-326; 37-104 (will
convert to AFI 33-396) and
TO 31S5-4-7205-8-1 PKI
Fundamentals
7.2.1. Electronic
                                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
Communications
7.2.2. Internet policy
                                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
familiarization
7.2.3. E-mail Management
7.2.3.1. Policy                  5                                                           -        A           -         -
7.2.3.2. E-mail etiquette        5                                                           -        A           -         -
7.3. Air Force Portal
TR: AF EIM CONOP; AF
EIM Strategy; AF Portal
Publishing Training Site;
Air Force Portal Content
Publishing Training Guides
7.3.1. Program objectives        -                                                           -        A           -         -
7.3.2. Roles                     -                                                           -        A           -         -
7.3.3. Enterprise
Information Management
(EIM)
7.3.3.1. Definition              -                                                           -        A           -         -
7.3.3.2. Capabilities            -                                                           -        A           -         -
7.3.4. Collaborative Tools
7.3.4.1. Community of
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Practice (CoP)
7.3.4.2. Defense Connect
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Online (DCO)
7.3.4.3. SharePoint              -                                                           -         -          -         -
7.4. Records Management
Program
TR: AFPDs 33-1, 33-3;
AFIs 33-322, 33-364;
AFMANs 37-104 (will
convert to AFI 33-396), 33-
363; AF Records
Information Management
System (AFRIMS); AF
Electronic Records
Management Solution
Guide
7.4.1. Program objectives        -                                                           -        A           -         -

                                                               44
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                                STS 3D0X3



                                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                       PROVIDED

                                2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                         3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                    &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                                WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                 TASKS

                                                                                 CERTIFI
                                          START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                    ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                          DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS


7.4.2. Definition of official
                                   5                                                           -        A           -         -
records
7.4.3. User
                                   5                                                           -        A           -         -
Responsibilities
7.4.4. Business rules for
                                   -                                                           -         -          -         -
electronic files (e-files)
7.4.5. Files Maintenance
Disposition Plan
(Paper/Electronic)
7.4.5.1. File and retrieve
                                   -                                                           -        B           -         -
documents
7.4.5.2. Cutoff procedures
                                   -                                                           -        B           -         -
(paper /electronic)
7.4.6. Managing deployed
                                   -                                                           -        A           -         -
records
7.4.7. Destruction                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
7.5. Functional
Management
TR: AFECD; AFIs 33-101,
36-2201, 36-2845, 38-101;
AFMAN 37-104; AFQTP
3DXXX-225E ; 3D0X3
CFETP
7.5.1. Responsibilities
7.5.1.1. AF Career Field
                                   5                                                           -        A           -         -
Manager
7.5.1.2. MAJCOM
                                   5                                                           -        A           -         -
Functional Manager
7.5.1.3. Base Functional
                                   5                                                           -        A           -         -
Manager
7.5.2. Resource
Management
7.5.2.1. Manpower
                                   7                                                           -         -          -         -
products
7.5.2.2. Manpower studies          -                                                           -         -          -         -
7.5.2.3. Describe
Authorization
                                   7                                                           -         -          -         -
/Organizational Change
Request process
7.5.2.4. Manpower
                                   -                                                           -         -          -         -
standards
7.5.2.5. Allocating
                                   7                                                           -         -          -         -
personnel
7.5.3. Information
Dominance awards                   7                                                           -         -          -         -
program
7.5.4. Workshops


                                                                 45
                                                                                                             Attachment 1
                                                                                                                STS 3D0X3



                                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                       PROVIDED

                                2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                         3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                    &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                                WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                 TASKS

                                                                                 CERTIFI
                                          START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                    ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                          DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

7.5.4.1. Describe the
purpose of Utilization and
                                   5                                                           -        A           -         -
Training Workshop
(U&TW)
7.5.4.2. Describe the
purpose of Training                5                                                           -        A           -         -
Advisory Groups
7.5.4.3. Describe the
purpose of Occupational            5                                                           -        A           -         -
survey
7.5.4.4. Describe the
purpose of the Specialty
                                   5                                                           -        A           -         -
Training Requirements
Team (STRT)
8. EXPEDITIONARY
COMMUNICATIONS
CONCEPTS
TR:
https://aef.afpc.randolph.af.
mil; AFDD 4-0; AFIs 10-
401, 10-403, 21-109, 33-
201(V2), AFMAN 23-110
8.1. Describe Joint Task
Force (JTF) Organizational
Structure
8.1.1. Unified/Combatant
                                   -                                                           -         -          -         -
Commands (COCOM)
8.1.2. Air Force
Component Commander                -                                                           -         -          -         -
(AFCC)
8.1.3. Joint Force Air
Component Commander                -                                                           -         -          -         -
(JFACC)
8.1.4. Commander Air
Force Forces                       -                                                           -         -          -         -
(COMAFFOR)
8.2. Describe the
Concepts of Aerospace
Expeditionary Force (AEF)
Employment
8.2.1. AEF Tempo
                                   5                                                           -        A           -         -
Banding
8.2.2. Enabler Forces              5                                                           -        A           -         -
8.2.3. Deployment
                                   -                                                           -         -          -         -
Planning and Execution
8.3. Deployment Process
8.3.1. Defined                     -                                                           -         -          -         -
8.3.2. Develop
8.3.2.1. Designed
Operational Capability             7                                                           -         -          -         -
(DOC)
8.3.2.2. AEF Unit Type
Codes (UTCs)
                                                                 46
                                                                                                             Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS


8.3.2.2.1. UTC                    5                                                           -        A           -         -
8.3.2.2.2. Equipment (e.g.
                                  7                                                           -        A           -         -
LOGDET)
8.3.2.2.3. Personnel (e.g.
                                  7                                                           -        A           -         -
MANFOR)
8.4. Posturing                    7                                                           -         -          -         -
8.5. Sourcing                     7                                                           -         -          -         -
8.6. Readiness Status
Reporting
8.6.1. Status of Resources
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
and Training (SORTS)
8.6.2. AEF UTC Reporting
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
Tool (ART)
8.7. Understand Force
Module communications
support concept
8.7.1. Open the Air Base          7                                                           -         -          -         -
8.7.2. Command and
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
Control
8.7.3. Establish the Air
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
Base
8.7.4. Generate the
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
Mission
8.7.5. Operate the Air
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
Base
8.7.6. Robust the Air Base        7                                                           -         -          -         -
8.8. Deployment
Procedures
8.8.1. Develop load plan          -                                                           -         -          -         -
8.8.2. Explain pallet build-
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
up procedures
8.8.3. Explain hazardous
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
cargo preparation
8.8.4. Prepare
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
documentation
8.8.5. Determine site
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
selection requirements
8.8.6. Determine site
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
preparation requirements
8.8.7. Determine site
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
configuration requirements
8.8.8. Determine
requirements for
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
constructing deployment
site utility grids
9. TYPICAL
DEPLOYABLE COMM
MISSIONS
TR: AFPAM 10-100,
MAJCOM and Local
Directives

                                                                47
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                            STS 3D0X3



                                                                                         4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                               3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                   PROVIDED

                            2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                     3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                           LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                            WARTIME
REFERENCES
                             TASKS

                                                                             CERTIFI
                                      START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                      DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

9.1. Deployable COMM
missions:
9.1.1. Contingency
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Response Groups
9.1.2. Theater Deployable
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Communications (TDC)
9.1.3. Deployable Air
Traffic Control Systems        -                                                           -        A           -         -
(DATCALS)
9.1.4. Engineering
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Installation
9.1.5. C4ISR Platforms
9.1.5.1. Air Operations
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Centers
9.1.5.2. Ground Theater
Air Control Systems (Air       -                                                           -        A           -         -
Control Squadrons)
9.1.5.3. Air Support
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Operations Centers
9.1.5.4. Remote Piloted
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Aircraft (RPA)
9.1.5.5. Installation
Notification and Warning       -                                                           -        A           -         -
System
9.1.5.6. American Forces
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Network (AFN)
9.1.5.7. Aeromedical
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Evacuation Support
10. ENTERPRISE
SYSTEMS
TR: AFI 13 Series, CJCSI
6211.02 , Joint Pub 6-0
10.1. Information
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Transport System (ITS)
10.2. Global Command
and Control Systems            -                                                           -        A           -         -
(GCCS)
10.3. Global Combat
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Support Systems (GCSS)
10.4. Global Information
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Grid (GIG)
10.5. Defense Information
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
Systems Network (DISN)
10.6. Defense Switched
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
Network (DSN)
10.7. Non-secure Internet
Protocol Router Network        -                                                           -        B           -         -
(NIPRNET)
10.8. Secure Networks
10.8.1. Secret Internet
Protocol Router Network        -                                                           -        B           -         -
(SIPRNET)
10.8.2. Defense Red
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Switch Network (DRSN)
                                                             48
                                                                                                         Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

10.8.3. Joint World-wide
Intelligence
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
Communications System
(JWICS)
10.8.4. National Security
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
Agency (NSA) Net
10.8.5. Global Broadcast
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
Service (GBS)
10.8.6. Global Positioning
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
System (GPS)
10.8.7. Distributed
Common Ground System              -                                                           -        A           -         -
(DCGS)
10.8.8. Battle Control
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
System–Fixed
10.8.9. Theater Battle
Management Core                   -                                                           -        A           -         -
Systems (TBMCS)
10.9. Nuclear Command
and Control Systems
TR: AFDD 3-72 Nuclear
Operations, CJCSI
3231.01B Nuclear
Command and Control
Extremely Sensitive
Operation
10.9.1. National Military
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
Command Center (NMCC)
10.9.2. Global High
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
Frequency Network
10.9.3. Strategic
Automated Command and             -                                                           -        A           -         -
Control System (SACCS)
10.9.4. Military Strategic
and Tactical Relay                -                                                           -         -          -         -
(MILSTAR) Satellite
10.9.5. Minimum Essential
Emergency
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Communications Network
(MEECN)
10.10. Space Systems
Elements
10.10.1. Air Force Satellite
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Control Network (AFSCN)
10.10.2. Defense
Meteorological Satellite          -                                                           -         -          -         -
Program (DMSP)
10.11. DoD Teleports &
Standard Tactical Entry           -                                                           -        A           -         -
Points
11. ORGANIZATIONAL
STRUCTURE
TR: AFPD 13-3; AFIs 33-
115 (V1) and 38-101


                                                                49
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

11.1. Communications
                                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
Squadron
11.2. Combat
Communications                   5                                                           -        A           -         -
Squadrons
11.3. Expeditionary
                                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
Communications Squadron
11.4. Air Force Network
Operations (AFNETOPS)
11.4.1. Air Force Network
Operations Center                5                                                           -        B           -         -
(AFNOC)
11.4.2. Integrated Network
Operations Security Center       5                                                           -        B           -         -
(INOSC)
11.4.3. Enterprise Service
                                 5                                                           -        B           -         -
Unit (ESU)
11.4.4. Area Processing
                                 5                                                           -        B           -         -
Center (APC)
11.4.5. Enterprise Service
                                 5                                                           -        B           -         -
Desk (ESD)
12. CYBER
OPERATIONS
TR: AFDD 3-12
12.1. Structure                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
12.2. Missions
12.2.1. Offensive                -                                                           -        A           -         -
12.2.2. Defensive                -                                                           -        A           -         -
12.2.3. Exploitation             -                                                           -        A           -
12.2.4. Other (e.g.
Influence Operations (IFO),      -                                                           -        A           -         -
Electronic Warfare (EW))
12.3. Network Warfare
Fundamentals
12.3.1. Control Systems
(e.g. Supervisory Control
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
and Data Acquisition
(SCADA) networks)
12.3.2. Identify Tactical
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Data Link (TADL) networks
12.3.3. Network
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Exploitation Capabilities
12.4. Cyber Capabilities
12.4.1. Affects on
                                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
adversary decision makers
12.4.2. Role of cyber
operations in achieving
                                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
military and national goals
and objectives
12.4.3. Information
                                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
Superiority

                                                               50
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

12.4.4. Air Force Network
Operations Center                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
(AFNOC) Role
12.4.5. Air Operations
                                  -                                                           -        B           -         -
Center (AOC) Role
12.4.6. Checklists,
Standard Operating
Procedures (SOP),                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Tactics, Techniques and
Procedures (TTP)
13. BASIC COMPUTER
FUNDAMENTALS
TR: https://www.my.af.mil
(under AF e-Learning site);
3DXXX Basic Computer
Fundamentals
13.1. Communications &
Network Protocols
13.1.1. Connection
                                  -                                                           -        B           -         -
Oriented Communication
13.1.2. Connectionless
                                  -                                                           -        B           -         -
Oriented Communication
13.1.3. International
Standards Organization
                                  -                                                           -        B           -         -
(ISO) Open Systems
Interconnect (OSI) Model
13.1.4. Transmission
Control Protocol/Internet         -                                                           -        B           -         -
Protocol (TCP/IP)
13.1.5. Department of
Defense (DoD) Standards           -                                                           -        A           -         -
Protocol
13.1.6. IPv4/IPV6                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
13.1.7. Ports (IP)                -                                                           -        A           -         -
13.2. Network Theory/
Components
13.2.1. Components
13.2.1.1. Component
                                  -                                                           -        B           -         -
Principles
13.2.1.2. Central
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
Processing Unit (CPU)
13.2.1.3. Computer
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
memory
13.2.1.4. Input/output (I/O)
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
Devices
13.2.1.5. Storage Devices         -                                                           -        A           -         -
13.2.1.6. Peripherals
(Printers, FAX, Scanners,         -                                                           -        A           -         -
etc)
13.2.2. Network Types
13.2.2.1. Wired ( LAN,
                                  -                                                           -        B           -         -
WAN, MAN)

                                                                51
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS


13.2.2.2. Wireless               -                                                           -        B           -         -
13.2.2.3. Virtual Private
                                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
Network (VPN)
13.2.2.4. Topologies (Star,
                                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
Ring, Bus, Hybrid)
13.2.2.5. Theory and
operation of switching
                                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
devices (ATM, ISDN, GIG-
E)
13.3. Network Devices
13.3.1. Modems                   -                                                           -        A           -         -
13.3.2. Switches/Bridges         -                                                           -        A           -         -
13.3.3. Multiplexers             -                                                           -        A           -         -
13.3.4. Routers                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
13.3.5. Encryption
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Devices
13.4. Communications
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Mediums
13.5. LAN Architecture           -                                                           -        A           -         -
13.6. Software
13.6.1. Operating Systems
(e.g. UNIX, Windows,             -                                                           -        A           -         -
LINUX)
13.6.2. Applications (e.g.
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Word, Excel, PowerPoint)
13.6.3. Infectious and
                                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
malicious Software
14. COUNTER-
CHEMICAL,
BIOLOGICAL,
RADIOLOGICAL and
NUCLEAR
TR: AFPAMs 10-100 and
10-2501
14.1. Describe threats
14.1.1. Chemical                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
14.1.2. Biological               -                                                           -         -          -         -
14.1.3. Nuclear                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
14.1.4. Radiological             -                                                           -         -          -         -
14.2. Warning systems,
signals and reporting
procedures
14.2.1. Joint and Coalition      -                                                           -         -          -         -
14.2.2. Air Force                -                                                           -         -          -         -



                                                               52
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

14.2.3. Respond to alarm
conditions
14.2.3.1. Identify and
prioritize mission/service       -                                                           -         -          -         -
restoration
14.2.3.2. Post-attack
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
personnel accountability
14.2.3.3. Post-attack
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
reconnaissance
14.2.3.4. Identify and mark
CBRNE to include                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
unexploded ordinance
14.2.3.5. Report
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
suspicious activities
14.3. Mission Oriented
Protective Postures
14.3.1. Describe                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
14.3.2. Implement                -                                                           -         -          -         -
14.4. Individual protective
equipment & personal
protective equipment
(IPE/PPE)
14.4.1. Requirements and
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
Limitations
14.4.2. Joint Service
Lightweight Integrated Suit
Technology (JLIST)
14.4.2.1. Inspect and
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
maintain
14.4.2.2. Wear                   -                                                           -         -          -         -
14.4.2.3. Perform critical
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
mission tasks
14.4.2.4. Execute work-
rest cycles and hydration        -                                                           -         -          -         -
standards
14.4.2.5. Perform self aid
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
and buddy care
14.4.2.6. Perform
contaminated personnel           -                                                           -         -          -         -
movement
14.4.2.7. Perform
decontamination                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
procedures
15. SECURITY+
CERTIFICATION
TR: AF e-learning,
Security+ Training Track
15.1. Systems Security
15.1.1. Differentiate
among system security            -                                                          B          -          -         -
threats
15.1.2. Hardware and
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
peripheral security risks
                                                               53
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

15.1.3. Operating System
hardening practices and
                                  -                                                           c         -          -         -
procedures (sever/
workstation security)
15.1.4. Establish
procedures for application        -                                                          b          -          -         -
security
15.1.5. Apply security
                                  -                                                          b          -          -         -
applications procedures
15.1.6. Virtualization
                                  -                                                          B          -          -         -
technology applications
15.2. Network
Infrastructure
15.2.1. Threats and
mitigation techniques             -                                                          B          -          -         -
(ports and protocols)
15.2.2. Network design
                                  -                                                          B          -          -         -
elements and components
15.2.3. Determine
Network tool usage to             -                                                          C          -          -         -
facilitate network security
15.2.4. Network tools to
                                  -                                                          a          -          -         -
facilitate network security
15.2.5. Network Devices
vulnerabilities and               -                                                          B          -          -         -
mitigations
15.2.6. Transmission
Media vulnerabilities and         -                                                          B          -          -         -
mitigations
15.2.7. Wireless
networking vulnerabilities        -                                                          B          -          -         -
and mitigations
15.3. Access Control
15.3.1. Industry best
practices for access control      -                                                          B          -          -         -
methods
15.3.2. Common access
                                  -                                                          B          -          -         -
control models
15.3.3. Organize users (&
computers) into security
groups and roles while            -                                                          C          -          -         -
determining rights and
privileges
15.3.4. Apply security
controls to file and print        -                                                          b          -          -         -
resources
15.3.5. Compare and
apply logical access              -                                                           c         -          -         -
control methods
15.3.6. Authentication
                                  -                                                          B          -          -         -
models and components
15.3.7. Authentication
models and components             -                                                          B          -          -         -
deployment

                                                                54
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

15.3.8. Authentication and
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
identification
15.3.9. Physical access
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
security methods
15.4. Assessments and
audits
15.4.1. Perform risk
assessment and                   -                                                          b          -          -         -
implement risk mitigation
15.4.2. Perform
vulnerability assessments        -                                                          b          -          -         -
using common tools
15.4.3. Purpose of
Penetration testing and          -                                                          B          -          -         -
vulnerability scanning
15.4.4. Use monitoring
tools on systems/networks
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
and detect security related
anomalies
15.4.5. Comparison of
                                 -                                                          C          -          -         -
monitoring methodologies
15.4.6. Apply proper
logging procedures and           -                                                           c         -          -         -
evaluate results
15.4.7. Auditing
procedures for system            -                                                          b          -          -         -
security settings
15.5. Cryptography
15.5.1. General
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
Cryptography Concepts
15.5.2. Basic hashing
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
concept application
15.5.3. Basic encryption
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
application concept
15.5.4. Protocols                -                                                          B          -          -         -
15.5.5. Public Key
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
Cryptography Concepts
15.5.6. PKI Certificate
Management                       -                                                          b          -          -         -
Implementation
15.6. Organizational
Security
15.6.1. Redundancy
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
Planning Components
15.6.2. Apply disaster
                                 -                                                          b          -          -         -
recovery procedures
15.6.3. Execute
appropriate incident             -                                                          b          -          -         -
response procedures
15.6.4. Legislation and
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
organizational policies
15.6.5. Environmental
                                 -                                                          B          -          -         -
controls


                                                               55
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                                STS 3D0X3



                                                                                             4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                   3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                       PROVIDED

                                2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                         3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                    &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                               LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                                WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                 TASKS

                                                                                 CERTIFI
                                          START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                    ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                          DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

15.6.6. Social engineering
                                   -                                                          B          -          -         -
risks
16. INFORMATION
PROTECTION (IP)
OPERATIONS
TR: AFH 31-602; AFIs
33-115, 33-138, 33-200,
33-332; AFMAN 33-282;
AFSSI 8580; DISAC 300
series; TO 31S5-4-7205-8-
1 PKI Fundamentals
16.1. Identification and
                                  5                                                           A         B           -         -
Authentication
16.2. Password policy
                                  5*                                                          B         B           -         -
TR: AFMAN 33-282
16.3. Configure malicious
logic protection devices
                                  5*                                                           -         -          -         -
(e.g. antivirus, SMTP relay,
MIME filters)
16.4. Defense in-Depth
TR: Books 24/7, book:
"Computer and Information
Security Handbook",
Chaps 4, 14, 23, & 33
16.4.1. Concept                    5                                                          A         A           -         -
16.4.2. Tactics,
techniques, and                    5                                                          A         A           -         -
procedures
16.4.3. Defensive Counter
                                   5                                                          A          -          -         -
Information (DCI)
16.4.4. Threats and
Vulnerabilities
16.4.4.1. Internal and
                                   5                                                          A          -          -         -
external
16.4.4.2. Viruses and
Other Malicious Logic
TR: AFI 33-138
16.4.4.2.1. Types of
computer viruses and
                                   5                                                          A         B           -         -
threat levels they pose to
AF systems
16.4.4.2.2. Virus indicators       5                                                          A         B           -         -
16.4.4.2.3. Virus
                                   5                                                          A         B           -         -
prevention methods
16.4.4.3. Threat advisory
roles and responsibilities of
                                   5                                                          B          -          -         -
the US Cyber Command
TR: AFI 33-115 (V1)
16.4.4.4. Counter-
                                   -                                                          A          -          -         -
measures
16.5. Virtual Private
Network (VPN) and Secure
                                  5*                                                          A         B           -         -
Networking
TR: TO 31S5-4-7048-8-1

                                                                 56
                                                                                                             Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS


16.6. INFOCON
16.6.1. INFOCON roles
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
and responsibilities
16.6.2. INFOCON change
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
procedures
16.7. Access to IT
resources by foreign             5                                                          A         A           -         -
nationals
16.8. Access of volunteers
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
to IT resources
17. NETWORKED
SYSTEMS
TR: AFIs, 33-112, 33-115;
AFMAN 33-152
17.1. Overview/definition        5                                                          A         B           -         -

17.2. Logon/logoff               5                                                           -         -          -         -

17.3. Network Operations
17.3.1. Topologies               5                                                          B         B           -         -
17.3.2. Addressing (e.g.
                                 5                                                           -        B           -         -
sub-netting)
17.3.3. Transmission
                                 5                                                           -        B           -         -
media
17.3.4. Interface protocols      5                                                           -        B           -         -
17.3.5. Internet Protocols
(IP)
17.3.5.1. IP version 4           5                                                           -        B           -         -

17.3.5.2. IP version 6           5                                                           -        B           -         -
17.3.5.3. Transport
Technologies
17.3.5.3.1. Dual stack           5                                                          B         B           -         -

17.3.5.3.2. Dual layer           5                                                          B         B           -         -

17.3.5.3.3. Tunneling            5                                                          B         B           -         -

17.3.5.3.4. Translation          5                                                          B         B           -         -

17.3.5.3.5. Addressing           5                                                          B         B           -         -
17.3.6. Network
Installation Procedures
17.3.6.1. Implement
hardware patching and            -                                                           -         -          -         -
techniques (e.g. CAT 5)
17.3.6.2. Implement
network installation             -                                                           -         -          -         -
procedures
17.3.7. Secure
Configururation
17.3.7.1. Workstation            -                                                          A         b           -         -


                                                               57
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

17.3.7.2. Wireless
                                 -                                                          A         b           -         -
technology
18. COMPUTER
SECURITY (COMPUSEC)
TR: AFI 33-200 and
AFMAN 33-282
18.1. Policy and
Procedures
18.1.1. User’s access
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
requirements
18.1.2. Information
System (IS)
18.1.2.1 Hardware
                                 5                                                          B         B           -         -
security compliance
18.1.2.2. Guarding IS
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
against casual viewing
18.1.2.3. Guarding data
against tampering, theft,        5                                                          A         A           -         -
and loss
18.1.2.4. IS auditing
                                5*                                                          B         B           -         -
principles
18.1.3. Removable media
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
control
18.1.4. Portable electronic
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
device control
18.1.5. Wireless service
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
control
18.1.6. Remote access
                                 5                                                          B         B           -         -
security requirements
18.1.7. Specifications for
contractor regarding use of
                                 -                                                          A         A           -         -
hardware and software not
owned by the AF
18.1.8. Virtual private
                                 -                                                          A         A           -         -
networks (VPN) control
18.1.9. Multi-function
                                 -                                                          A         A           -         -
devices (MFD) control
18.1.10. Commercial and
wireless access ISP              -                                                          A         A           -         -
control
18.2. Information
Assurance (IA) Risk
Management
TR: AFI 33-210
18.2.1. Overview                 5                                                          A         A           -         -

18.2.2. Risk analysis            -                                                          A         A           -         -
18.2.3. Employ approved
test tool software during
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
Security, Testing, and
Evaluation (ST&E)
18.2.4. Computer
equipment requirements
                                 -                                                          A          -          -         -
TR: AFI 33-115 (V1), para
4.7.13

                                                               58
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

18.3. Certification and
Accreditation (C&A)
TR: AFI 33-210
18.3.1. Air Force C&A
                                 5*                                                          B         B           -         -
program (AFCAP)
18.3.2. IA Controls              5*                                                          A         B           -         -

18.3.3. Air Force C&A tool       5*                                                          A         B           -         -
18.3.4. National IA
Glossary                          -                                                          A          -          -         -
TR: CNSSI No. 4009
18.3. 5. Assessments and
Authorizations (A&A)
TR: DoD 8500 Series; AFI
33-200, 33-210; NIST 800-
53, 800-53A; CNSSI 1253,
FIPS 200; FISMA; USC 44
18.3.5.1. Risk
Management Framework              5                                                          A         A           -         -
TR: NIST 800-53
18.3.5.2. Categorization of
Information & Information
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Systems
TR: FIPS 199, Table 1
18.3.6. Security
                                                                                              -         -          -         -
Objectives
18.3.6.1. Confidentiality         -                                                           -         -          -         -

18.3.6.2. Integrity               -                                                           -         -          -         -

18.3.6.3. Availability            -                                                           -         -          -         -

18.3.7. Potential Impact          5                                                          A         B           -         -
18.3.8. Security
                                  5                                                          A         B           -         -
Categorization
18.3.9. Assessments
                                  5                                                          A         B           -         -
SDLC
18.3.10. IA Controls
TR: FIPS 200, NIST 800-
53
18.3.10.1. Types of
Controls                          -                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: Practitioner Guide
18.3.10.2. Technical              -                                                           -         -          -         -

18.3.10.3. Administrative         -                                                           -         -          -         -

18.3.10.4. Physical               -                                                           -         -          -         -
18.3.11. Control Identifiers
& Family Names
TR: 800-53
18.3.11.1. AC - Access
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Control
18.3.11.2. AT –
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
Awareness & Training

                                                                59
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                             STS 3D0X3



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                    PROVIDED

                             2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                      3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                 &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                             WARTIME
REFERENCES
                              TASKS

                                                                              CERTIFI
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                 ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

18.3.11.3. AU – Audit &
                                7                                                           -        A           -         -
Accountability
18.3.11.4. CA – Security
Assessment &                    7                                                           -        A           -         -
Authorization
18.3.11.5. CM –
                                5                                                          A         A           -         -
Configuration Management
18.3.11.6. CP -
                                5                                                          A         A           -         -
Contingency Planning
18.3.11.7. IA –
Identification &                5                                                          A         B           -         -
Authentication
18.3.11.8. IR - Incident
                                5                                                          A         A           -         -
Response
18.3.11.9. MA -
                                5                                                          A         A           -         -
Maintenance
18.3.11.10. MP – Media
                                5                                                          A         A           -         -
Protection
18.3.11.11. PE Physical &
                               5*                                                          A         B           -         -
Environmental Protection
18.3.11.12. PL - Planning      7*                                                          A         A           -         -
18.3.11.13. PS –
                                5                                                          A         A           -         -
Personnel Security
18.3.11.14. RA – Risk
                                5                                                          A         B           -         -
Assessment
18.3.11.15. SA – System
                               7*                                                          A         A           -         -
& Services Acquisition
18.3.11.16. SC – System
& Communications                5                                                          A         A           -         -
Protection
18.3.11.17. SI – System &
                                5                                                          A         A           -         -
Information Integrity
18.3.11.18. PM – Program
                               7*                                                          A         B           -         -
Management
18.4. Network Security
18.4.1. Ports protocols
and services program            -                                                          A         A           -         -
TR: AFSSI 8551
18.4.2. Consent to
monitoring for official IT
                                5                                                          A         A           -         -
resources
TR: AFI 10-712
18.5. Incident Reporting
TR: AFI 33-138
18.5.1. Report IT asset
                                5                                                          b         b           -         -
security incidents
18.5.2. Report network
                                5                                                           -         -          -         -
service interruption
18.6. Continuity Planning
TR: DoDI 3020.42; AFI
10-208
18.6.1. Individual
                                -                                                          A         B           -         -
responsibilities


                                                              60
                                                                                                          Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

18.6.2. Types of continuity
                                 -                                                          A         B           -         -
plans
18.7. Remanence Security
TR: AFI 31-401; AFMAN
33-282; MAJCOM/local
procedures
18.7.1. Storage Media
18.7.1.1. Classified/
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
sensitive
18.7.1.2. Classified
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
storage
18.7.2. Handling Methods
18.7.2.1. Clearing               5                                                          A         A           -         -

18.7.2.2. Degaussing             5                                                          A         A           -         -

18.7.2.3. Sanitizing             5                                                          A         A           -         -

18.7.2.4. Destruction            5                                                          A         A           -         -

18.7.2.5. Overwriting            5                                                          A         A           -         -
18.8. Information
Assurance Assessment
and Assistance Program
(IAAP)
TR: AFI 33-230
18.8.1. Overview                 5                                                          A         A           -         -

18.8.2. Roles                    5                                                          A         A           -         -

18.8.3. Responsibilities         5                                                          A         A           -         -

18.8.4. Assessment               5                                                          A         A           -         -

18.8.5. Perform out brief        -                                                           -         -          -         -

18.8.6. Complete report          -                                                           -         -          -         -
18.8.7. Route report to
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
commanders
18.8.8. Conduct follow-up
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
reports
19. COMMUNICATIONS
SECURITY (COMSEC)
MANAGEMENT
TR: AFIs 33-200, 33-201,
33-215, 33-230; AFKAG
1N, AFKAG-2; AFSSIs
3000 series and 4000
series; TO 00-20F-2
19.1. COMSEC Overview
TR: AFIs 10-701, 33-201
(V4); AFKAG-1N, AFKAG-
2
19.1.1. Management
                                 7                                                          A         A           -         -
terms

                                                               61
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.1.2. Electronic Key
Management System                7                                                          A          -          -         -
(EKMS) architecture
19.1.3. COMSEC/EKMS
architecture within the
                                 7                                                          A         A           -         -
COMSEC chain of
command
19.2. COMSEC manager
TR: AFKAG-1N Chap 3,
para 3.1 & 3.2; AFI 33-201,
Vol 1 & 2
19.2.1. Requirements            7*                                                           -        B           -         -
19.2.2. Duties and
                                7*                                                           -        B           -         -
responsibilities
19.2.3. Accountant duties
                                7*                                                          A         B           -         -
and responsibilities
19.2.4. Appointment
                                7*                                                           -        B           -         -
process
19.3. Administration and
management of COMSEC
material
TR: AFKAG-1, Chap 4
and 5; AFKAG-2. Chap 2
and 3; AFI 33-201V2
19.3.1. Urgent COMSEC
information dissemination       7*                                                           -         -          -         -
process
19.3.2. Doctrinal, policy,
and procedural COMSEC
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
information dissemination
process
19.3.3. Procedures for
requesting COMSEC               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
material
19.3.4. Minimum on-hand
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
requirements
19.3.5. Over-the-counter
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
service requirements
19.3.6. Photography
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
limitations
19.3.7. Public display
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
limitations
19.3.8. Procedures to
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
issue material to users
19.3.9. Records
maintenance and                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
disposition process
19.3.10. Accounting
                                7*                                                          A          -          -         -
Legend Codes (ALC)
19.3.11. Use of account
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
numbers
19.3.12 Purpose
19.3.12.1. Account
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
information letter

                                                               62
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.3.12.2. Notification of
existence of COMSEC              7*                                                           -         -          -         -
account letter
19.3.12.3. Defense
Courier Service (DCS)
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
Authorization Record (DCS
Form 10)
19.3.13. In-place-date           7*                                                           -         -          -         -

19.3.14. Procedures
19.3.14.1. Requesting a
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
new keying system
19.3.14.2. Requesting
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
COMSEC equipment
19.3.14.3. Requesting
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
replacement material
19.3.14.4. Requesting
disposition instructions for     7*                                                           -         -          -         -
increase/surplus material
19.4. Cryptographic
Access Program (CAP)
TR: AFI 33-201 (V4)
19.4.1. Purpose                  7*                                                          A         A           -         -

19.4.2. Appointment letter       7*                                                           -         -          -         -

19.4.3. Managing CAP             7*                                                           -         -          -         -
19.4.4. Semi-Annual
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
validation
19.4.5. Eligibility and
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
qualification requirements
19.4.6. AF IMT Form 9,
Cryptographic access             7*                                                          A          -          -         -
certificate
19.4.7. Requirements for
                                 7*                                                          A          -          -         -
TDY personnel
19.4.8. Access withdrawal
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
methods
19.4.9. Declination
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
procedures
19.5. Physical Security
Principles for Handling
COMSEC Material
TR: AFKAG-1N Chap 6 &
7, Atch 3
19.5.1. Authorized access         7                                                           -        A           -         -

19.5.2. Access control           7*                                                           -        A           -         -

19.5.3. Physical security        7*                                                          A         A           -         -
19.5.4. Physical security
of cryptographic equipment       7*                                                          A         A           -         -
and components



                                                                63
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.5.5. Perform COMSEC
material inventory utilizing     7*                                                          2b        b           -         -
AF COMSEC Form 16
19.5.6. Submit authorized
annotations on COMSEC            7*                                                          2b        A           -         -
Physical Inventory (CPI)
19.5.7. Access control
                                 7*                                                           -        A           -         -
devices requirements
19.5.8. Safeguarding
                                  7                                                          A         A           -         -
COMSEC material
19.5.9. SF Form 701,
                                 7*                                                          A         A           -         -
Activity Security Checklist
19.5.10. SF Form 702,
Security Container Check         7*                                                          A         A           -         -
Sheet
19.5.11. AFTO Form 36,
Maintenance Record for           7*                                                          A         A           -         -
Security Type Equipment
19.5.12. AF Form 1109,
                                 7*                                                          A         A           -         -
Visitor Register Log
19.5.13. COMSEC access
                                 7*                                                          A         A           -         -
list
19.5.14. Amending
                                  -                                                           -        A           -         -
COMSEC publications
19.6. Destruction of
COMSEC Material, Aids
and Equipment
TR: AFKAG-1 Chap 8,
Atch 4; AFKAG-2 Chap 3;
EKMS 704B (V1)
19.6.1. Disposition of
                                 7*                                                          A         A           -         -
material
19.6.2. Disposition request      7*                                                           -         -          -         -
19.6.3. Disposition for
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
each record
19.6.4. Schedule routine
                                 7*                                                           -        A           -         -
destruction
19.6.5. Routine
destruction methods
19.6.5.1. Paper aids             7*                                                          A         A           -         -

19.6.5.2. Non-paper aids         7*                                                          A         A           -         -
19.6.6. Destruction official
                                 7*                                                           -        A           -         -
requirements
19.6.7. Destruction record
                                 7*                                                           -        A           -         -
annotation
19.6.8. Local COMSEC
Management Software
(LCMS)
19.6.8.1. Destruction of
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
physical key
19.6.8.2. Destruction of
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
electronic key


                                                                64
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.6.8.3. Originate local
destruction report and          7*                                                           -         -          -         -
send to TIER 1
19.7. Control of Top
Secret (TS) Keying
Material
TR: AFKAG-1N Chap 9;
AFI 33-201 (V2)
19.7.1. COMSEC No-Lone
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
Zone exceptions
19.7.2. Two Person
Integrity (TPI) handling        7*                                                          A         B           -         -
procedures
19.7.3. Storage
requirements of TPI             7*                                                          A          -          -         -
material
19.7.4. Storage
requirements in tactical        7*                                                          A          -          -         -
situations
19.7.5. Requirements
                                7*                                                          A          -          -         -
when transporting TPI
19.7.6. Two Person
                                7*                                                          A          -          -         -
Control (TPC)
19.8. Transporting
COMSEC Material
TR: AFKAG-1N Chap 10;
AFKAG-2 Chap 5; AFI 31-
401; AFI 33-201 (V2)
19.8.1. Packaging material      7*                                                          b          -          -         -
19.8.2. Marking package
                                7*                                                          b          -          -         -
for shipment
19.8.3. Transferring
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
material
19.8.4. Prepare material
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
for transportation
19.8.5. Transportation of
                                7*                                                          A         A           -         -
equipment
19.8.6. Responsibilities of
                                7*                                                          A         A           -         -
COMSEC couriers
19.9. Emergency Action
Plans (EAPS)
TR: AFKAG-1N Chap 11;
AFI 33-201 (V2)
19.9.1. Emergency
protection planning
procedures
19.9.1.1. CONUS
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
locations
19.9.1.2. OCONUS
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
locations
19.9.1.3. Hostile duty
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
locations
19.9.1.4. Basic contents        7*                                                          A          -          -         -


                                                               65
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.9.2. Emergency
destruction
19.9.2.1. COMSEC
                                 7*                                                          A          -          -         -
material priorities
19.9.2.2. Methods and
extent of emergency              7*                                                           -         -          -         -
destruction
19.9.2.3. Destruction of
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
material in aircraft
19.9.2.4. Reporting
precautionary and total          7*                                                           -         -          -         -
destruction procedures
19.9.3. Purpose of EAP
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
dry runs
19.10. COMSEC
Deviations
TR: AFI 33-201 (V2), Sec
J; AFSSI 4212;
https://www.my.af.mil/afrim
s/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
19.10.1. Deviation
                                 7*                                                          A         A           -         -
definition
19.10.2. Incident definition     7*                                                          A         A           -         -
19.10.3. Material receipt
discrepancy reporting             -                                                           -        A           -         -
definition
19.10.4. Types of
                                 7*                                                           -        A           -         -
COMSEC incidents
19.10.5. Practices
Dangerous to Security            7*                                                          A         A           -         -
(PDS) definition
19.10.6. COMSEC
deviation/incident reporting     7*                                                           -        A           -         -
process
19.10.7. COMSEC
incident reporting process        -                                                           -         -          -         -
in tactical situations
19.10.8. Safeguarding
COMSEC material
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
involved in a COMSEC
deviation
19.10.9. Report
submission process
19.10.9.1. Initial report         -                                                           -         -          -         -
19.10.9.2. Case number
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
assignment
19.10.9.3. Submitting an
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
amplifying report
19.10.9.4. Final report           -                                                           -         -          -         -
19.10.9.5. Incident
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
evaluation
19.10.9.6. Case closure           -                                                           -         -          -         -


                                                                66
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.10.9.7. Set material
status to pending                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
investigation in LCMS
19.10.9.8. Clear marked
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
item in LCMS
19.11. Information
Assurance Assessment
and Assistance Program
(IAAP)
TR: AFI 33-230; AFI 33-
201 (V2); AF Form 4160
19.11.1. COMSEC
                                 7*                                                           -        A           -         -
account assessment
19.11.2. Frequency of
                                 7*                                                           -        A           -         -
Wing IA assessments
19.11.3. COMSEC
Responsible Officer (CRO)        7*                                                           -        A           -         -
assessment
19.12. Secure voice
management
TR: AFI 33-201 (V9); AFI
33-201 (V2); AFKAG-2,
Sec II
19.12.1. User
Representative (UR)/
Alternate UR roles and           7*                                                           -         -          -         -
responsibilities for modern/
STE key
19.12.2. Secure Voice
Responsible Officer               7                                                          A          -          -         -
(SVRO) responsibilities
19.12.3. Secure card
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
issuing
19.12.4. Protection and
management of Secure              7                                                           -         -          -         -
Cards
19.12.5. Terminal re-
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
keying
19.12.6. Physical security
                                  7                                                           -         -          -         -
requirements of a terminal
19.12.7. Type 1 terminal
COMSEC incident                   -                                                           -         -          -         -
reporting
19.12.8. Department
Agency Organization               -                                                           -         -          -         -
(DAO) code
19.12.9. Secure Cards
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
ordering
19.12.10. Central Office
Record (COR) semi-annual          -                                                           -         -          -         -
inventory




                                                                67
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.13. Electronic Key
Management System
(EKMS) Functional
Operation
TR: SCO UNIX; AFSSI
3031; EKMS 704B (V1)
19.13.1. EKMS platform
security functions
19.13.1.1. Function of the
                                7*                                                          A         A           -         -
EKMS software
19.13.1.2. Use of the
Local Management Device         7*                                                          A         A           -         -
(LMD)
19.13.1.3. Use of the Key
                                7*                                                          A         A           -         -
Processor (KP)/KOK-22A
19.13.1.4. Use of VPN/KG
                                7*                                                          A         A           -         -
250 with EKMS
19.13.1.5. Use of the Tier
                                7*                                                          A         A           -         -
3 device with EKMS
19.14. Security
requirements
19.14.1. LMD security           7*                                                           -         -          -         -

19.14.2. KP security            7*                                                           -         -          -         -
19.14.3. KP rekey
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
procedures
19.15. UNIX Command
TR: UNIX manuals
19.15.1. SCO UNIX login
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
procedures
19.15.2. Fundamental
SCO UNIX commands for           7*                                                           -         -          -         -
EKMS
19.15.3. Create system
administrator user account      7*                                                           -         -          -         -
in UNIX for LCMS
19.15.4. Delete system
administrator user account      7*                                                           -         -          -         -
in UNIX for LCMS
19.16. LCMS System
Administration
TR: AFSSI 3031
19.16.1. Configure TCP/IP
and PPP to connect to
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
Central Office
Record(COR) server
19.16.2. Review the
LCMS error log for               -                                                           -         -          -         -
anomalies
19.16.3. Clear the LCMS
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
error log
19.16.4. Perform a lone-
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
tar tape full system backup
19.16.5. Perform a lone-
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
tar tape restore

                                                               68
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.16.6. Perform a lone-
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
tar CD-ROM restore
19.17. Archiving Data
TR: AFSSI 3031
19.17.1. Archive LCMS
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
transactions
19.17.2. Retrieve archived
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
data
19.18. Preparing LCMS
for Operation
TR: LMD/ KP Operator’s
Manual Chap 2 & 7
19.18.1. Log on to LCMS          7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
19.18.2. Navigate LCMS
                                 7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
desktop
19.18.3. Perform manual
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
account registration
19.18.4. Register
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
operators in LCMS
19.18.5. Create an
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
operator account
19.18.6. Back up LCMS
database                         7*                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFSSI 3031
19.18.7. Restore LCMS
database                         7*                                                           -         -          -         -
TR: AFSSI 3031
19.18.8. Log off of LCMS         7*                                                          2b         -          -         -

19.19. Device Protocols
19.19.1. Set LCMS
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
protocol
19.19.2. Set KP (KOK-
                                  -                                                           -         -          -         -
22A) protocol
19.19.3. Set direct
COMMS settings (Secure            -                                                           -         -          -         -
Voice)
19.20. Site Initialization
19.20.1. Site Initialization
                                  -                                                          A          -          -         -
Familiarization
19.20.2. Create duplicate
re-initialization keys and        -                                                           -         -          -         -
disposition
19.20.3. Log on the KP           7*                                                           -         -          -         -

19.20.4. Log off the KP          7*                                                           -         -          -         -
19.20.5. Shut down oracle
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
server
19.20.6. Defrag hard drive       7*                                                           -         -          -         -




                                                                69
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                             STS 3D0X3



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                    PROVIDED

                             2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                      3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                 &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                             WARTIME
REFERENCES
                              TASKS

                                                                              CERTIFI
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                 ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.20.7. Change Directory
User Agent (DUA)
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
database password of
LCMS account for X.500
19.20.8. Exchange
FIREFLY credentials with       7*                                                           -         -          -         -
another account
19.20.9. FIREFLY vector
                               7*                                                          A         A           -         -
set definition
19.20.10. Register
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
FIREFLY vector set
19.20.11. Register modern
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
key in account
19.20.12. Load FIREFLY
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
vector set
19.20.13. Upload
Common Account Data
(CAD) and EKMS                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
credential via X.400/X.500
server
19.20.14. Retrieve a CAD
and credential from            7*                                                           -         -          -         -
another EKMS ID
19.20.15. Process CAD
and credentials from           7*                                                           -         -          -         -
another EKMS ID
19.21. Modifying Alternate
COMSEC Manager and
Accountant Accounts
19.21.1. Create CIK
privileges for alternate
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
COMSEC manager
operator account
19.21.2. Create CIK
privileges for operator        7*                                                           -         -          -         -
account (accountant)
19.21.3. Create PIN
number for alternate
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
COMSEC manager or
accountant
19.21.4. Register a local
                               7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
element (user account)
19.21.5. Register
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
equipment types
19.22. USING LCMS
19.22.1. Communicating,
Accounting, Ordering and
Distributing
19.22.1.1. EKMS
                               7*                                                          A          -          -         -
communications functions
19.22.1.2. Prepare
message for
                               7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
communication between
EKMS elements


                                                              70
                                                                                                          Attachment 1
                                                                                                             STS 3D0X3



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                    PROVIDED

                             2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                      3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                 &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                             WARTIME
REFERENCES
                              TASKS

                                                                              CERTIFI
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                 ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.22.1.3. Wrap message
                               7*                                                          b          -          -         -
for transmission to TIER 1
19.22.1.4. Send an EKMS
message to TIER 1 via
                               7*                                                          b          -          -         -
X.400, direct comms,
floppy or hard copy
19.22.1.5. Connect to
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
X.400 server
19.22.1.6. Check
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
electronic mail
19.22.1.7. Send electronic
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
mail
19.22.1.8. Receive
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
electronic mail
19.23. Electronic
COMSEC Material
Accounting
TR: AFKAG-2
19.23.1. Card loader
user application software       -                                                          A          -          -         -
(CLUAS)
19.23.2. Differences
between LCMS and
                                -                                                          B         B           -         -
Common User Application
Software (CUAS)
19.23.3. Oracle database
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
description
19.23.4. Accountable item
                                -                                                           -         -          -         -
summary description
19.24. Using CUAS
19.24.1. Register CUAS          -                                                           -         -          -         -
19.24.2. Set up local
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
elements (user accounts)
19.24.3. Create a local
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
element
19.24.4. Promote/demote
a COMSEC Responsible
Officer (CROs) and             7*                                                           -         -          -         -
Alternate CRO (ACROs)
within CUAS
19.24.5. Add Secure
Voice Responsible Officers     7*                                                           -         -          -         -
(SVROs) to CUAS
19.24.6. Print local
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
element inventories
19.24.7. Remove a local
                               7*                                                           -         -          -         -
element
19.24.8. View contents of
                               7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
containers
19.25. Managing
Container and Account
Packages
19.25.1. Create an
                               7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
account package

                                                              71
                                                                                                          Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.25.2. Move COMSEC
material from one               7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
container to another
19.25.3. Print an inventory
                                7*                                                          b          -          -         -
for a container
19.25.4. Print reports of
                                7*                                                          b          -          -         -
the contents of a container
19.25.5. Remove a
                                7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
container
19.26. Managing
Requirements Under
Element and Summary
Tab
19.26.1. Enter material
into requirements area for      7*                                                           -         -          -         -
a local element
19.26.2. Under Summary
Tab
19.26.2.1. Add short titles     7*                                                           -         -          -         -
19.26.2.2. View account
                                7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
holdings
19.26.2.3. Manage
                                7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
effective dates of material
19.26.2.4. Manage
supersession dates of           7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
material
19.26.2.5. Assign effective
                                7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
dates to an edition
19.26.2.6. Register short
                                7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
titles
19.26.3. Receive Physical
Material
TR: AFKAG-1N; AFKAG-
2; AFI 33-201, (V1)
19.26.3.1. Send receipt to
COR for electronic keys
                                7*                                                          b          -          -         -
TR: AFKAG-2 Chap 4
para 4.3
19.26.3.2. Process
transfer report initiation      7*                                                          b          -          -         -
(TRI) using LCMS
19.26.3.3. Receive
COMSEC material into            7*                                                          b          -          -         -
CUAS
19.27. Issuing COMSEC
Material to Local Element
19.27.1. Issue COMSEC
material to local element       7*                                                           -         -          -         -
using CUAS
19.27.2. Print transfer
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
register
19.27.3. Perform
destruction on physical         7*                                                           -         -          -         -
material via CUAS

                                                               72
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                               STS 3D0X3



                                                                                            4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                  3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                      PROVIDED

                               2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                        3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                   &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                              LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                               WARTIME
REFERENCES
                                TASKS

                                                                                CERTIFI
                                         START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                   ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                         DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.27.4. Perform
destruction of a short title     7*                                                           -         -          -         -
via CUAS
19.28. Generation of
Electronic Key in LCMS
19.28.1. Generate
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
traditional net key
19.28.2. Produce
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
electronic key
19.28.3. Register
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
electronic key
19.28.4. Register TrKEK
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
into local account
19.28.5. Distribute TrKEK
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
to DTD/SKL using LCMS
19.28.6. Distribute TrKEK
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
to DTD/SKL using CUAS
19.28.7. Modify effective
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
dates in LCMS
19.29. Manual Distribution
of Physical and Electronic
Key
19.29.1. Distribute
electronic key to an EKMS        7*                                                          b          -          -         -
element
19.29.2. Distribute
                                 7*                                                          b          -          -         -
electronic key in CUAS
19.29.3. Distribute
physical key to an EKMS          7*                                                          b          -          -         -
element (manually)
19.30. Transferring
Electronic Key
19.30.1. Receive
electronic key from another      7*                                                           -         -          -         -
EKMS account (BET)
19.30.2. Transfer
electronic key to another        7*                                                           -         -          -         -
EKMS account (BET)
19.30.3. SKL Operations
TR: SKL Reference                7*                                                          A          -          -         -
Guide, AFSSI 3041
19.30.4. Perform SKL Key
Transfer                         7*                                                          2b         -          -         -
TR: SKL Reference Guide
19.31. Transferring
Physical COMSEC
Material via LCMS
19.31.1. Receive approval
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
for the transfer
19.31.2. Obtain an article
                                 7*                                                           -         -          -         -
number
19.31.3. Send required
copies of SF 153 with            7*                                                           -         -          -         -
material


                                                                73
                                                                                                            Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

19.31.4. Fill out DCS Form
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
1
19.32. Inventories
TR: AFKAG-2 Chap 7
19.32.1. Perform semi-
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
annual reporting in LCMS
19.32.2. Reconcile the
Inventory Reconciliation        7*                                                           -         -          -         -
Status (IRST) in LCMS
19.32.3. Reconcile semi-
                                7*                                                           -         -          -         -
annual report in LCMS
19.32.4. Generate an
inventory report for the        7*                                                           -         -          -         -
account in CUAS
19.32.5. Generate a local
element inventory report in     7*                                                           -         -          -         -
CUAS
19.32.6. Reconciliation of
                                 -                                                          A          -          -         -
tracer action
19.33. Perform KP
changeover procedures
TR: AFSSI 3031; Logistic        7*                                                          b          -          -         -
Support Plan 97-2; KOK-
22 Processor
19.34. Perform KP re-
                                 -                                                           -         -          -
initialization procedures
20. EMSEC PROGRAM
MANAGEMENT
TR: AFI 33-200; AFSSI
7000 series, (S); AFMAN
33-214 (V1); Emission
Security handbook;
CNSSP-300, (S/NF),
CNSSI 7000,
NSTISSAM/TEMPEST
2-95, CNSSP 17, DISA
Wireless STIG
20.1. Zoning methodology         5                                                          A         A           -         -
20.2. Understand EMSEC
Hardware radiation
classifications
20.2.1. IT equipment             5                                                           -        A           -         -
20.2.2. Communications
                                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
Equipment
20.2.3. Cryptographic
                                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
equipment
20.2.4. Identify inspection
                                 5                                                           -        A           -         -
tools
20.3. Inspection process
20.3.1. Emission security
                                 5                                                          A         b           -         -
assessment coordination
20.3.2. Review package
                                 5                                                          2b        b           -         -
for Accuracy

                                                               74
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

20.3.3. Conduct emission
                                 5                                                          2b        b           -         -
Security assessment
20.3.4. Conduct
                                 5                                                          2b        b           -         -
countermeasure review
20.3.5. Verify specific
                                 5                                                          b         b           -         -
Countermeasures
20.3.6. Prepare package
                                 7                                                           -        b           -         -
for CTTA
20.3.7. Waiver processing        5                                                          A          -          -         -
20.4. Protected
Distribution System (PDS)
20.4.1. PDS Identification       5                                                          A         A           -         -

20.4.2. Assess PDS               5                                                           -         -          -         -
20.4.3. PDS Inspection
                                 5                                                          A         A           -         -
process
20.4.4. PDS Management
                                 5                                                          A         B           -         -
Program
20.4.5. Coordinate with
Civil Engineers on PDS           7                                                           -        b           -         -
Planning and construction
20.5. Create local policy        7                                                           -        b           -         -
20.6. Coordinate with Civil
Engineer on new                  7                                                           -        b           -         -
Construction projects
21. OPERATING
SYSTEMS
TR: AF e-Learning
Website; Computer Based
Training (CBT) Courses for
Operating Systems
21.1. UNIX
21.1.1. Common
                                 5                                                          B         B           -         -
vulnerabilities/exploits
21.1.2. Utilize command
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
line
21.1.3. Auditing
                                 -                                                          A          -          -         -
configuration
21.1.4. Scripting                -                                                           -         -          -         -
21.1.5. Assigning
Privileges
21.1.5.1. File                   -                                                          A          -          -         -

21.1.5.2. User                   -                                                          A          -          -         -

21.1.6. Use ASCII text           -                                                           -         -          -         -
editor (e.g. VI editor)
21.1.7. Shell types              -                                                          A          -          -         -

21.2. WINDOWS
21.2.1. Common
                                 5                                                          B         B           -         -
vulnerabilities/exploits

                                                               75
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

21.2.2. Utilize command
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
line
21.2.3. Auditing
                                 -                                                          A          -          -         -
configuration
21.2.4. Scripting                -                                                           -         -          -         -
21.2.5. Assigning
Privileges
21.2.5.1. File                   -                                                          A          -          -         -

21.2.5.2. User                   -                                                          A          -          -         -
22. TELE-
COMMUNICATIONS
TR: TOs 31S5-4-6207-1,
31S5-4-6207-2; VPS
Commercial Manuals
22.1. Voice Protection
System (VPS)
                                 5                                                           -        B           -         -
components, distributed
nature, and capabilities
22.2. VPS System
Administration
22.2.1. VPS file structure       5                                                           -        B           -         -
22.2.2. VPS system
                                 5                                                           -        B           -         -
processes
22.3. Use of VPS user
management and                  5*                                                           -        B           -         -
permissions
22.4. VPS Policy
Development
22.4.1. VPS policy
                                5*                                                           -        B           -         -
components
22.4.2. Ambiguous rules          -                                                           -        B           -         -
22.4.3. Checking a call
                                5*                                                           -        B           -         -
against VPS policy
22.4.4. Creating and
                                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
modifying security policies
22.5. Reports                    -                                                           -        B           -         -
23. INFORMATION
ASSURANCE OFFICER
(IAO)
TR: AFIs 33-100, 33-200;
33-210, and 10-712
23.1. System Level
23.1.1. Definition               -                                                          A         A           -         -

23.2. Organizational
23.2.1. Definition               -                                                          A         A           -         -
23.2.2. Develop IAO
Program within
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
subordinate wing
organizations
                                                               76
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                              STS 3D0X3



                                                                                           4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                 3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                     PROVIDED

                              2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                       3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                  &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                             LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                              WARTIME
REFERENCES
                               TASKS

                                                                               CERTIFI
                                        START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                  ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                        DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

23.2.3. Trains IAOs for
subordinate organizations
23.2.3.1. Manage
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
COMPUSEC program
23.2.3.2. Manage EMSEC
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
program
23.2.3.3. Manage
organizational TMAP              -                                                           -         -          -         -
program
23.2.3.4. Provide IA
                                 -                                                           -         -          -         -
guidance to IAOs
23.2.3.5. Ensure IAO
reports incidents to Wing        -                                                           -         -          -         -
IA office
23.2.3.6. Ensure IAO
conducts IAAPs/self-             -                                                           -         -          -         -
assessments
24. COMBAT CREW
COMMUNICATIONS
TR: AFIs 11-244, 33-
201(V2), 11-201, AFSSI
3041; AFLMM-10A; TO
33D7-36-56-1; LMM-32A,
Air Force Fact Sheets,
Flight Information
Handbook
24.1. Mission
24.1.1. Conventional             -                                                           -        B           -         -

24.1.2. Nuclear                  -                                                           -        B           -         -

24.2. Unit Responsibilities      -                                                           -        B           -         -

24.3. Training
24.3.1. Requirements             -                                                           -        B           -         -
24.3.2. Level 1
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Certification
24.3.3. Level 2
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Certification
24.3.4. Special
                                 -                                                           -        A           -         -
Experience Identifier
24.4. Communications
Kits
24.4.1. Requirement              -                                                           -        B           -         -

24.4.2. Construction             -                                                           -        B           -         -

24.4.3. Contents                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
24.4.4. Communications
                                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
Kit Types
24.5. Flight Information
Publications (FLIP)
24.5.1. Geographical
                                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
Regions

                                                               77
                                                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                                                            STS 3D0X3



                                                                                         4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                               3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                   PROVIDED

                            2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                     3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                           LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                            WARTIME
REFERENCES
                             TASKS

                                                                             CERTIFI
                                      START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                      DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS


24.5.2. Documents
24.5.2.1. Planning             -                                                           -        A           -         -

24.5.2.2. Enroute              -                                                           -        A           -         -

24.5.2.3. Terminal             -                                                           -        A           -         -
24.5.2.4. Flight
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
Information Handbook
24.5.3. Charts
24.5.3.1. High Altitude        -                                                           -        A

24.5.3.2. Low Altitude         -                                                           -        A

24.5.4. Requirements           -                                                           -         -          -         -

24.5.5. FLIP Management
24.5.5.1. Order
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
documents/maps
24.5.5.2. Post changes         -                                                           -        A           -         -
24.5.5.3. Handle outdated
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
material
24.5.5.4. Electronic FLIP      -                                                           -        B           -         -
24.6. Equipment
24.6.1. Data Management
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
Device
24.6.2. Dual Modem
                               -                                                           -        A           -         -
Upgrade-II
24.6.3. KOI-18                 -                                                           -        B           -         -
24.6.4. Miniature Receive
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
Terminal
24.6.5. Satellite Phone
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
(Iridium)
24.6.6. Simple Key Loader      -                                                           -        B           -         -
24.6.7. Time Distribution
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
Subsystem
24.6.8. Transportable
Time Distribution              -                                                           -        B           -         -
Subsystem
24.6.9. Time Standard
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
Module
24.6.10. Transfer Module       -                                                           -        B           -         -
24.6.11. Transfer Module
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
Service Set
24.6.12. Universal
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
Terminal Set
24.7. Aircrew Training
24.7.1. EWO training           -                                                           -        B           -         -
24.7.2. AF Form 4168,
                               -                                                           -        B           -         -
COMSEC Users Training
                                                             78
                                                                                                         Attachment 1
                                                                                                             STS 3D0X3



                                                                                          4. PROFICIENCY CODES USED TO
                                                3. Certification for OJT                  INDICATE TRAINING/INFORMATION
                                                                                                    PROVIDED

                             2. CORE
1. TASKS, KNOWLEDGE                                                                      3 SKILL   5 SKILL    7 SKILL   9 SKILL
                                 &      A       B         C           D          E
AND TECHNICAL                                                                            LEVEL     LEVEL      LEVEL     LEVEL
                             WARTIME
REFERENCES
                              TASKS

                                                                              CERTIFI
                                       START   STOP   TRAINEE      TRAINER
                                                                                 ER      Course     CDC        OJT       OJT
                                       DATE    DATE   INITIALS     INITIALS   INITIALS

24.7.3. Communications
                                -                                                           -        B           -         -
Kit Items Training
24.8.
Assessments/Exercises
24.8.1. Communications
Continuing Evaluation           -                                                           -        B           -         -
Program
24.8.2. Red Flag                -                                                           -        B           -         -
24.8.3. Global Thunder          -                                                           -        B           -         -
24.8.4. MILSTAR
                                -                                                           -        B           -         -
Connectivity Assessment
24.8.5. Nuclear Weapons
Systems Evaluation              -                                                           -        B           -         -
Program
24.8.6. POLO HAT                -                                                           -        B           -         -
25. COMPUTER-BASED
TRAINING
TR: https://www.my.af.mil
(under AF e-Learning site)
25.1. Complete AF e-
Learning 3DXXX Project
                                7                                                           -         -          -         -
Management Learning
Program
26. AIR FORCE JOB
QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS
APPLICABLE TO AFSC
3DXXX
TR: AFI 33-154, CFETP
3D0X3 (See Note 2)
26.1. AFJQS3DXXX-
200TBA Training Business        5                                                           -         -          -         -
Area (TBA) Handbook
26.2. AFQTP 3DXXX-
232A, Communications
and Information Work            7                                                           -         -          -         -
Center Supervisor's
Handbook




                                                              79
                                                                                                          Attachment 1
Section B - Course Objective List
4. Measurement. Each objective is indicated as follows: W indicates task or subject knowledge which is
measured using a written test, PC indicates required task performance which is measured with a
performance progress check, and PC/W indicates separate measurement of both knowledge and
performance elements using a written test and a progress check.

5. Standard. The standard is 70% on written examinations. Standards for performance measurement
are indicated in the objective and delineated on the individual progress checklist. Instructor assistance is
provided as needed during the progress check, and students may be required to repeat all or part of the
behavior until satisfactory performance is attained.

6. Proficiency Level. Most task performance is taught to the “2b” proficiency level which means the
student can do most parts of the task, but does need assistance on the hardest parts of the task (partially
proficient). The student can also determine step by step procedures for doing the task.

Section C - Support Materials
7. The following list of support materials is not all-inclusive; however, it covers the most frequently
referenced areas. The most current products can be found at the 81 TRSS/TSQ webpage and are
available for download from the web site at
https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/20946/AFKN_Docs/Forms/AllItems.aspx. Procedures for requesting product
development are found in AFI 33-154.

7.1. Generic AFJQSs/AFQTPs applicable to AFSC 3D0X3:

Publication No.              Pseudo File Code      Publication Title

AFJQS3D0X3-200CC                    N/A            Vulnerability Assessment Specialist
AFJQS3D0X3-200CD                    N/A            Boundary Protection Specialist
AFJQS3D0X3-200R                     N/A            Vulnerability Lifecycle Management System
AFJQS3D0X3-211RB                    N/A            Information Assurance Manager
AFJQS3D0X3-211U                     N/A            COMSEC Management
AFQTP3D0X3-200A                     N/A            Command, Control, and Communications Protection
AFQTP3D0X3-200L                     N/A            Emission Security Handbook
AFQTP3D0X3-207RD                    N/A            Digital Telephone Switch Security Procedures
AFQTP3D0X3-211RA                    N/A            Information Assurance Manager’s Handbook


Section D - Training Course Index
8. Purpose. This section of the CFETP identifies training courses available for continuation/
supplemental training. For information on all formal courses, refer to the Air Force Education and
Training Course Announcements (ETCA) database, at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
9. Air Force In-Residence Courses.
  Course Number           Course Title                                                        Location

  E3AQR3D033 00AA         IT Fundamentals Basic                                               Keesler
  E3AQR3D033 01AA         Cyber Surety Apprentice                                             Keesler
  E3ABR3D033 00BA         Cyber Surety Security+ Certification Apprentice                     Keesler




                                                     80
10. Air University A4/A6 Courses.

For a current listing of Air University A4/6 courses go to http://www.au.af.mil/au/afiadl/.

11. Exportable Courses.

For a current list of the available CBT courses refer to AF e-Learning at https://www.my.af.mil/.


Section E - MAJCOM Unique Requirements

12. There are currently no MAJCOM unique requirements. This area is reserved.




                                                      81
